- ICIJ launched a really new, large,
gigantic presentation as well.
- Yes.
- Right, so there were some like hints on Twitter
some days before, I don't know if some of you
have seen that, but it was quite impressive.
Yesterday they launched again, like, I don't know,
20, 30, 40 stories around world
based on this Pandora leaks, how it's called-- datasets,
probably opening the box of Pandora.
(Michael laughs)
(speakers talking over each other)
- Yeah, they probably got a run, yeah.
if they run out of pivots at some point, right.
- I feel the same.
No Bahamas and Panama leaks in between as well.
- There were some others, and then
FinCEN files, yes, definitely.
But I guess, yeah, these leaks,
these Panama, Paradise, Pandora leaks, I guess, yeah.
It's like a theme, but it's, yeah.
I thought the same as at some point, I initially thought,
Okay, there might not be enough leaks,
but now I think they run out of P words.
- I wonder what happens first, right?
And I mean was also the Facebook leak
on the weekend as well, right?
So with the Facebook internal documents being leaked
and whistleblower, and so lots of brave people
highlighting works of half-legal or illegal activities
in all kinds of places.
So really impressive how courageous
these folks are to do this.
- Absolutely. Yes, very much so.
And I think-- no, no, you go ahead.
- Because of the money involved, it's also really dangerous.
So, I mean, if there are like hundreds of millions
or hundreds of billions dollars in play,
then it's easy to send your, you know,
your murder squad after journalists.
And I would be quite scared actually, to be honest
with some journalists with this kind of data,
because there are lots of very powerful and very dangerous
people as well, that are involved in these kind of things.
- And yeah, exactly like you said, and particularly
also wealthy people, so they probably don't shy away
from spending a few of their illegal cash, euros, dollars,
whatever, on, you know, some kind of activity
that wouldn't be very nice.
- Exactly.
And it was kind of surprising, again, to see--
I'm just pulling it up now, if you can see that.
So this is the ICIJ website.
- Yeah, I was just-- yeah.
Okay, I can use your screen then. Yep.
- Where they have all their stories of the Pandora papers.
Why does it not scroll?
For some reason it stopped scrolling?
Oh, no, it's good.
So they have basically videos, and first stories here
on the website, and then they have one more detailed story
over here where they explain a little bit more
what's in the data, how many documents,
so it was 12 million documents, lots of text documents,
but also PDFs, bank reports, contracts, passports,
bank statements, and all of this kind of stuff.
Some structured data like CSV and DB files
and spreadsheets and so on.
But they found this time, because they also at this time,
US safe haven, so like South Dakota and there.
So it's really interesting to see also kind of that
it's this time, not just the people that had their money
in Panama or Cayman islands, but there's also
a lot of US stuff as well.
Right. So you see that 81 US states basically
have the most-- South Dakota is 81,
trust in in the Pandora papers.
We'll see more US information coming out about that as well.
And I was really happy to see that the ICIJ, again,
used Neo4j, they were generally curious
to create a graph of the data.
Unfortunately, data is not yet available,
so we'll have to wait a little bit, but perhaps you're lucky
and next time on our next stream, we can actually look
at it, some of the data at least--
- Hopefully, yeah.
- That would be really cool, but it depends
on when they make the data available, they said here
at the end-- where is it-- yes, they're going to release
the data, but it's basically not yet. Right.
So, I think similar--
- Yeah, similar to last time, I think they're probably
gonna, you know, work a little bit more on it
and then they're gonna release it.
Obviously, I think what they did last time was they
didn't release it all, they anonymized and removed
some stuff of it, but I guess that's what they need
to do now, before they can publish it.
- Yeah, exactly.
So they only publish like companies and offices,
but they don't publish things like passport information
or like private information or bank records directly.
So they only basically publish the structure.
So which shared companies are there, which law firms
are involved, which banks are involved, and which people
are the ultimate owners as well. Right?
So you see actually people behind the scenes
that are actually owning these companies.
So that's actually really interesting then.
- It's very interesting. - We can look at that.
- And I think that that's also like what Cobra just asks,
is, do you think it's possible to combine Pandora papers
with other papers, the Panama papers and the Paradise papers
and maybe even FinCEN files or whatever.
And I actually think it's totally fair to say
that this is possible.
And then probably I would say the ICIJ
is doing this already.
- Yeah. That's what I say here, ICIJ is planning
to incorporate data from the Pandora papers
into the offshore leaks database.
So it's busy building one gigantic database.
I don't know if you've seen, if you go to the offshore leaks
pages, to the offshore database, they have now 785,000
share companies in there.
So basically with every leak,
there are like two or three hundred thousand
additional share companies being added.
And so it kind of continues to grow.
If you look at like this, then you see Paradise paper
added so many and Panama paper added many.
And so you basically can look at how much each leak
added to this overarching database as such.
So it will become like a larger and larger database
basically, and they will make it publicly available as well.
- Yeah.
- So looking forward to that as such, and hopefully
we can explore it either next time
or one of the next times as such.
- Yeah. And then yeah, maybe I can quickly go over here.
So I think what's interesting is that they also have
this power player view thing where they, basically,
you pick one of the interesting people,
and I just picked the first one on the list,
Abdullah the Second.
And then they give some information,
what's in the Pandora papers
about the guy and something.
And then if you scroll further down,
you get a little visualization of the graph
of his connections.
So you see, he's very involved with all kinds of entities.
You can, you can zoom in a little bit, and then you see
some more details about entities and here you see,
for example, this company here does whatever things
and you can get some more details and related stories.
So I think that that's pretty cool.
Yes, Cobra on Twitch, they are using Neo4j for this,
which is the--
- That's also in the article.
So if you read the article, they mentioned actually--
- Mentioned here.
- That they use (indistinct) and Neo4j in there.
It's interesting that you found a power player's feature.
Because I try to find it yesterday, and yesterday
it was not yet online, so they must have updated it.
- Yeah, maybe I can post a link in chat.
- Mm-Hmm, please do that, it would be really good.
- So yeah, they have all-- this is like here,
you see the full list of people they have
as particularly interesting.
And you can go on anyone else.
So you go, for example, I don't know, here,
Princess Lalla Hasnaa from Morocco and then it gives you
who she is and then what she did and then her connection.
So in this case, she is the beneficial owner
of, like, a trust here in the British Virgin islands.
So, yeah.
- Cool. Because last time they published, I think it was
when they actually published the Panama papers.
What we actually did is because we didn't want to wait
for their data publication, we just grabbed the data
from the power players web UI.
So, because you can access the .json file from that.
But I need to look into that.
And so perhaps we can look at this next time,
the fact directly from the power players feature the data.
(speakers talking over each other)
- Or, I mean, I guess they provide the data at some point
so we'll see how long it takes them.
But I'm pretty confident that probably
a couple of days, maybe weeks.
- Yeah. Sounds good.
- All right. But this is exciting, but today we actually
wanted to talk about Neo4j Aura Free with you and me.
- Yep.
- So, quickly, it's, you know, what is Neo4j Aura Free?
I guess we talked about this a couple times,
but we will go over this again.
We will pick a dataset.
If you have a dataset you would like us to explore,
please let us know.
We would always be interested in getting new datasets,
interesting challenges or interesting data to model.
Obviously, yes, this, this new ICIJ leak will be one
hot on our top list, basically.
So we will look into that as soon as it's available.
Then we think about what kind of questions we might ask.
So, how would a model look like, what kind of data modeling
tools would we use, or we usually use arrows.
And when we go about, you know, talking about
what the questions we want to solve from the data,
and this would usually form a kind of model,
which would then try to transform over from a, let's say,
virtual whiteboard onto the database itself.
Determine the (indistinct)
and then load and query, obviously.
So this is the plan for today.
So then I'll quickly talk about what Neo4j Aura Free is.
So it is the free version of Neo4J Aura.
So as simple as that.
You get 50,000 nodes and 175,000 relationships for free,
you get access to Neo4j Bloom as well, and Browser,
which obviously is part of all Neo4j additions,
it's free forever.
So that's one of the big differences between Aura
and SandBox, which closes down after seven days maximum.
And if you wanna get it, you just go to the link.
I'll post a link in chat in a second if you want,
if you are watching this on Twitch, you can just type !Aura,
and then you get the link pinged back to you.
And then you can set up an instance and follow along.
The initial load is a little bit long.
So if you wanna play along with what we are gonna do today,
you might-- better do it now, or if maybe you have something
already set up, then you are good to go.
And yeah, let's dive into it.
The dataset today, we look into the Movie Graph
a little bit.
I think we did before already, but the point here
is we wanted to see how easy it is to import data
from an existing Sandbox from Dump files you might have
and get an initial load into Neo4j Aura Free,
if you have something already with you
in a different database environment.
So that's the goal for today.
- And, yeah. I'll stop sharing.
- Shall we dive in? - (speaking indistinctly)
- Yeah. By the way, don't forget to tell us
where you're watching from.
So we are really interested to see where people
are watching from.
Hey, (indistinct), nice to see you, in general,
we really love to hear where people
are kind of watching the stream from.
- Absolutely.
- So today I wanted to kind of look at the ways
of how you can get existing
larger datasets into Aura as well.
So imagine you get some data from somewhere already
in Neo4j and how do you get this into Aura?
And also the Aura team launched a Sandbox side feature
last week which allows us to actually start a new instance
with the Movie dataset to start with.
Okay. So if you look at this, perhaps you want to look
at this first.
So as just a disclaimer, I have lots of Aura Free databases
here, but it's a special perk
so usually you get one Aura Free database.
- Exactly.
- Just because I want to show all these kind of different
things, the Aura team gave me permission.
I think I'm probably only one of very few people
who have more than one Aura Free database.
What I wanted to show you here is,
if I create a new Aura Free database, I can give it a name,
like for instance, movies, and then select region.
Depending on where you are, latency wise,
it's good to choose either Europe, US,
or Singapore for Asia Pacific.
So I'll choose Belgium for the time being.
And the new thing is to, you can either create
a blank database, which is empty,
or you can create one with the movies dataset.
And so I'll start this, I create this database
in the background.
It shows me again, the password that I can copy and store.
And then I just let it run
because it takes a while to (indistinct) it up.
And we come back to this movie database later on.
Okay, I just store the password here.
And while we're doing this, I want to wanted to show you
some other things as well.
So you probably know, I don't know if you know,
but in the Neo4j sandbox you can create your own datasets.
You don't just need to use the existing pre-prepared
datasets, but you can also create your own datasets
as we've shown a few times before.
So in this case, I have a blank sandbox here,
and I just open Neo4j Browser for it.
And thanks to our colleague, Rik van Bruggen,
I got a really nice Cypher statement here,
which will create a beer graph for us,
and it does this by actually passing Wikipedia.
So it basically goes to Wikipedia
with Dutch version of Wikipedia.
And so you have like this table here with all
kinds of beer types and breweries and alcohol percentages,
and then so on.
And Rick one to test something, if you can directly load
from the HTML page the data to import into Neo4j, right?
So he wrote a statement that basically loads the HML
and then extracts different things from that.
So you see, these are like HML or selectors,
or j-query selectors that you can say, a table,
the figure table of table body, table row, table cell.
And then the first one, the second one, and so on.
And it extracts the brand, the beer type,
alcohol percentage, brewery,
and timeframe from those tables.
And then for all of these tables.
So we can actually, if I just run this
in sandbox, like this.
Let's see what happens.
Here's my sandbox, here is my sandbox browser.
If I just return value here, then I get a list of-- see,
I hope it's not too much data for my browser to return.
Come on.
- Well, there are lots of beers in Belgium, so.
(laughing)
- Yeah, so it's one gigantic record,
I think that's the reason why it took long.
So you see here breweries with the text,
then there all the beer types and then so on.
So it has all the data from the website extracted, right?
And so this is unfortunately something you can't
do on Aura because APAC load HTML is not available
in Aura for security reasons.
So we can use sandbox to create actually our data.
So I do a little ASCII graph here.
So beer brand, we have beer type, beer brand
are brought by a brewery and a beer brand
has a certain alcohol percentage.
That's basically, what's in here, if I'm not mistaken.
Right. And so this is our little graph, and now I can
in sandbox just run this whole statement
and it'll create all these beers and breweries
and alcohol percentages-- oops-- alcohol percentages for me.
And I just have to practice copy and paste a little bit.
(chuckling)
- By the way, did you see this from, I don't know
who made is now available--
- Oh, StackOverflow--
(mic crackling from laughter)
- Maybe you should get this-- don't wanna completely
derail our Aura session here, but this is--
- Actually the-- (speakers talking over each other)
and now Cassidy Williams and some others
have actually brought it to life.
It's actually a high quality machine,
aluminum keyboard with a USB.
And it's extremely programmable.
So you can also change completely what it does.
It doesn't need to be copy and paste.
It can be anything else as well,
recruitment for your home automation system
or whatever you want to do with that as well.
So it's pretty cool.
And you can now buy it for 30 dollars
or something like that.
So it's pretty cool.
What does it-- it does not like me.
Let's see...
I think there are too many beers in Belgium.
- Mm, that could be.
- Let's see if this works.
- Yeah, that's fine.
- So what I wanted to show is basically, if you get
your data from somewhere else, so you saw saw a block post
or something else where someone created some data
in sandbox and you just want to do the same and then want
to take the data into Aura to be available forever.
Then that's something that you can use here.
So let's hope this works now.
I hope I didn't break anything here.
I didn't create any indexes.
So it might be that it's a little bit slow--
or no, what's wrong here?
Or perhaps, I mean, it's just for demonstration.
I need to check what's-- once we sandbox.
Let's just do a tiny graph. Okay.
So it just worked.
So now I have beers with beer brands and breweries in here,
and I can see the data, right?
So that's just my little example graph that I have in here.
Right. I got percentages, we have breweries,
we have beer brands and then so on.
So the interesting bit is now, actually I want to take
this data and want to take it into Aura as such, right?
So I go back to my sandbox UI, and there's a new thing
that we just released a few weeks ago, which is called
Make A Backup, so I can just request the backup
and for my database, it now will launch a background
process that will generate the backup for my database.
So it's queued into an backup queue,
and then from there it'll generate this backup.
So this will all to take a few seconds.
So while we are waiting for this, we can actually
go back and see if our movie setup is done yet.
No, it's not done yet.
So while we're waiting for--
- So there was a quick question chat
if we can get the Cypher to do this.
So, absolutely, yes.
There is a GitHub repository we will update
after each session.
And then you can find all the code there we use
during these sessions.
So you can go back in time basically, and check out
the old ones, or, you know, read on about this session.
So the update is coming later.
- So, yes, the GitHub repository, it's called
Neo4j Examples Discover Aura Free.
Perhaps Alex, you can also post--
I'll post a link in chat, yeah.
- And here's for each week, basically what you've done
and or what Lou and Alex did initially.
And now Alex and I am doing per week
that we'll edit there as well.
Okay, so we have our beer here, here's our sandbox.
And now it's a Create A Sandbox stamp today at this time.
And I can request a download link and it will go away
and create a download link for me.
And now I can do download
and it will download my sandbox dump.
And I can just then turn it into beers dump.
And in Aura itself, I have already prepared a database.
It's called Sandbox, that can now select
dump file here to upload.
- And you can do this with any--
- Any dump file, right.
But this is like our dump file from our sandbox database.
And uploads it, and it takes a bit, and then the beer data
should be available in all Aura database as well.
So that's how you can take data that either exists
in the sandbox or you know, you, you build something
incrementally over time in sandbox, or you have a script
or a block post from someone who did things in sandbox
with a few additional libraries that are installed
in sandbox, but not in Aura.
Then you can use this and then create the dump
and then basically get your data
into Aura as a continuation.
Also because the sandbox goes away after exactly 10 days.
So from that perspective, it's nice because in Aura
it stays along forever, right?
- Yeah. So if you started some kind of project on sandbox
and realized, oh, I now would like to keep this going.
This is your way.
- Exactly, exactly.
Which reminds me of something, there's a new thing
in Aura Free is when you have free databases running,
after 48 or 76 hours, I think after 76 hours,
it pauses them and then you can resume them later on.
So that's just the cost saving measures for people
who are not using the Aura Free databases.
We just pause them temporarily and then you can resume them.
But they're still there.
They won't go away, but they're paused as such.
Okay. So this was kind of our sandbox database,
which is still loading.
And then the other thing, while we are waiting
for those two Aura databases to get ready is the following.
For all the sandbox datasets we have also prepared
a GitHub repository, it's called-- actually an organization,
it's called Neo4j-graph-examples and it has 25 repositories.
One is actually a template repo, 25 repositories
with all kinds of datasets.
So we have stack overflow, we have the crime investigation
POLE sandbox, we have a Twitch sandbox,
we have a digital recommendation sandbox, Twitter sandbox,
northwind, Yelp, Twitter trolls, and so on.
Open street map, and all these repositories
don't just have-- if you want to look
at the recommendation sandbox here, they have
example images, the data model, they have example queries.
And they also have code examples.
So each of these repositories also has code examples
for all the languages.
So for instance, if I want to look at the go example
for the recommendation database, I can go here
and see that this is like the go code
for the recommendation database, with the correct query
for the recommendation as well.
And with all the boilerplate code that you need
for handling the connection to the database,
basically, in that language, right?
And so you can just clone and run this,
or run this directly.
Or you can just run this in a code sandbox,
GitHub code sandbox.
So actually, let's do this.
I just press dot on any GitHub repository,
it actually launches VS code in my browser.
And it actually makes this just available to me
as as an online life setup.
And then I can just say, I want to open it to me.
That's my terminal-- Oh yeah.
Terminals are not available on the web, but I can click
"continue working on" and then it can launch a terminal
and then I can actually run these code examples
basically directly from this repository as well.
So I can create a fork of this and then run a code space
and then run these code examples as well,
connecting to my database as well.
So it's pretty cool because all of these examples
are runable and I can just basically just run them directly.
Anyway, slight detour.
(microphone clipping from loud noise)
Let's see this, oh, this now has my things here, right?
So I can go to see the code, JavaScript, instance,
and then I can do MPM install Neo4j, which will install
the Neo4j one and then I can-- example.js.
And then the only thing that we need to add
is my connection credentials here.
Because in the repository-- well, actually,
what we can do is the following.
We can go to the sandbox and we have
our recommendation sandbox.
If I create a recommendation sandbox here, this one,
it actually replaces all the placeholders
that are in the code with the actual connection details.
And here, so if I connect, go here to connect your drivers,
I actually see these examples here,
but with all the credentials already place.
So I can just basically steal this and paste this in here.
And that means if I now run node example.js, then-- oops.
So, node examples, let's see, connect to my sandbox
and I get the query run and the examples here right.
(chuckling)
So then this is all running on my,
basically, in the browser.
This is PS code running there, and I also have,
you know, Python available, I have Ruby available
if I want to, I have Go available,
I have Rust and Cargo available, I have PHP available,
so this is pretty powerful, powerful stuff.
So I have all the 12 program languages available in this
GitHub code space, which is really cool.
- That is very cool.
- But what I actually wanted is to show you
is the following: if you go back to our repository
for the graph examples, foundations.
So the other thing that's also in these repositories
is this data folder, and you see these dump files here.
So we have 354043 dump, and we can just download
any of these dumps, for instance, the 403 dump.
I can click on this download,
then it downloads the dump file.
And then in Aura, I can also for any of these sandboxes,
if they fit into the limits here, I can just select
the dump file and say, recommendations for three dump
and upload, and then it'll upload the dump
and initialize it in Aura as well.
- And, maybe stupid question, but will this replace
all the data that is already in your sandbox, or will--
- That's actually not a stupid question,
but a really important question.
Yes, it's going to replace
all the data in your database. Right.
So I think it also says so when you say select dump
somewhere, it should actually say...
- I think there was a little popup that came,
but you clicked it away so quickly.
- Yeah. So maybe that was that.
Yeah, Okay, good to know.
So if--
Yeah, yes it does replace all your data.
- Okay. So if you have anything on your Aura Free
or any other Aura instances, this is not only Aura Free,
this is applicable to all.
- Yeah, exactly.
- Yeah.
- So, and while this is loading we can actually look
at our-- let's finish with our beer graph.
We can now, so this is called SandBox and I just open
your browser on this, or actually--
can actually open Bloom on this, can explore beer on Bloom.
And I just need to copy the password
for the sandbox database username.
It's Neo4j...
- By the way, don't bother screenshotting these passwords,
Michael will delete these instances afterwards.
So no, not really worth it.
(laughing)
- Yeah. So you see, it discovered all the nodes,
node types, all the labels in here.
And now I can say, I want to see all the beer brands
and then-- brand-- and it find all the beer brands
and I can then say, okay, for these beer brands,
I also want to have the breweries,
and then I can explore my data in Bloom.
So I can basically see from the brewery, I can see
which other brands differences have
and see these kind of correlated things.
So you see all my data made it in from sandbox.
We had it downfall into Aura
and then also Bloom for visualization, right?
So you can then, of course, also select what
the caption's meant to be and, and so on.
And the icons and all the fun stuff that you can do on Aura.
All right. So, should be here. Yeah.
Relationships are there and so on.
Right. So this was kind of off the data from our sandbox
that we got from a backup in sandbox into Aura as such.
And then the other example was the recommendation database,
it's still loading, but movies database, movies database
is interesting because that was the one where
when we created the Aura Free database, we selected
not a blank database, but the movies database.
And if I open this with Browser...
I'll just get the password for the movies database.
So the only thing that still needs to be done
is here to click on server connect.
So that's something that will be fixed soon.
But that's currently still something that's not showing
by the format to connect.
But now we have here the movies in here
and with the Browser guide, you can now,
for someone who's new to Neo4j and Cypher and Aura
can explore just data with Browser guide.
So very similar to SandBox, basically.
And that's also the goal, right?
So that at some point Aura
will replace SandBox as the whole--
- Yes, it does make sense.
And I think it's a great experience, especially
for a new user, fresh start to you, you load some data,
you hear, as it says, gives you some codes examples,
you click them, and then they populate over in the query box
and then you just execute and then you see some
first results and then you play around with it.
And from there you, you know, develop
more complex scenarios.
But I think this is, for a start,
I think this is still very good.
- Yeah, very good. Exactly.
So it's also contains information on creating data as well.
And so it's pretty comprehensive for someone to quickly
get through getting started with Cypher basically,
as such.
- Absolutely.
- Which is really nice.
- If you want more guiding, there's always graph academy.
So this is a little bit-- I wouldn't say, I mean,
it's also hands on and it gives you some railways, right?
So you are helped, but you are more told
what's happening in graph academy.
There's also like, why is this happening,
and what does it do?
- We actually also launched a new version
of graph academy just few weeks ago.
And if you want to try this, this is kind of the new version
of graph academy, which, basically, Cypher fundamentals
and modeling courses coming in the next few weeks.
So we are adding more and more courses
to this new version of graph academy as well.
And so that's definitely there and you can, of course,
also continue all the courses on the existing
graph academy while we are transferring them.
So if you want to take any of these courses
and most of them, actually, all the courses
that don't have graph designs in there
also work with Aura as well.
So all the intro courses, import courses,
and so on also work with Aura as well.
Okay. And our last example is the recommendations database,
which is still loading.
So we'll have to wait for that to finish.
The other thing that I wanted to show you quickly
is when you are running your desktop, you can also create
dump files from your own databases.
So let me just start just to get to it quickly.
Sometimes people also have shared dump files as such.
So that's also a way of getting them
but this is kind of mostly when you have an existing
Neo4j database somewhere or from someone, then the dump file
is the quickest data exchange format from sandbox to desktop
or to Aura, from the top one and then so on.
And so that's the quickest way of getting there.
- Yeah, and I think that that's particularly interesting,
because you might have started something with desktop
or like you said, somebody else said, Hey,
I have this dataset, which you wanna share publicly,
but he can-- or, they can give it to you.
And then you can upload a dump to your Aura Free
instance if it fits the limitations and then you can play
with it and sort of start this
collaboration project a little bit on it.
- Yeah, exactly.
So this currently doesn't like me, so I think it's because
I just updated desktop over like six solutions.
So just because I haven't used the Mac for quite some time.
So it's been-- oh, now. Okay, cool.
- Oh, here we go.
- Here we go.
So we can take one of the example datasets,
like here's an employees database or like example test data
database or something like that.
Or what else do I have here?
(mumbling)
- - party or a game of Thrones.
Oh, I want to have a more current one.
Let's see, 454 something...
So these are all a little bit older databases.
Let's see, for instance, if we take this one,
I can say create a dump file from this database
and then it'll basically go ahead and create a dump file
for me in the current folder.
And then I can use this dump file
to also upload it to Aura as well.
Right, that's also something that I can then do.
So I hope to do this, then select to dump...
Do it.
Could be that's because of my weird update thing here
that it didn't do it yet.
- Does it need to run to make a dump?
I don't think so, because I think it would be--
oh, it doesn't like me. Okay.
I have to create a new one.
So I think that was because I haven't done desktop
on this machine for quite some time.
- Okay. But I mean basically yes, you click on--
- - You click on dot then it creates a dump file.
Exactly. So I now, our online recommendations database
is still loading, should be done by now.
It's still loading.
So some of these things are also basically put in a queue
and then whenever the queue is ready to handle the data,
then it's actually processed.
So it's not necessarily-- oh, now it's ready.
It's not necessarily immediate.
So it's basically queued up in the background
as well to be processed.
- Yeah, so that's why it takes sometimes
it takes a little bit longer.
- Neo4j, and now I have my sandbox recommendations dataset
in here that I-- hopefully, let's see.
Yes. So we have 28,000 actors, movies, people, users,
and 166,000 relationships in here.
So that's kind of the full sandbox data.
I don't know if I use play sandbox (mumbling)
Then I have my movie graph.
I can, for instance, run one of these guides,
let's see, perhaps this one and if all goes well,
then we should see exactly content recommendations
for overlapping genres. Right?
So, and then you can continue to explore this data,
which is really nice.
So I recently updated it with more recent movies
as well from the Movieland dataset.
So all this data is more recent then it used to be,
so there's much more data in there,
but it's also more recent data as well.
- Oh, cool. That's great.
- And just to repeat, all these datasets are in this--
sorry, Neo4j graph examples organization,
and you can just pick and choose whatever dataset
you're interested in to get the dump files
and then import them into Aura and such.
So there's a lot of FinCEN files,
because we just mentioned FinCEN for instance.
- Yeah, and the Panama papers, Paradise papers--
- Panama papers, Paradise papers, exactly.
All these kind of things are in there as well.
So lots of contact tracing network
and open street map and so on.
So there's-- network management is also good.
So there's a lot of datasets that you can explore
from that perspective as well.
If you're adding also more, so for instance, which one
is new-- and, the StackOverflow one is also new,
which doesn't exist as sandbox yet.
So that's to become a sandbox--
- To be become a sandbox, okay, nice.
Or, if you can't wait for that to become a sandbox,
you can already go ahead--
- And put it into Aura--
- Put it into Aura. Yep. - Exactly.
And then the guide is available as (indistinct)
StackOverflow index HML.
So you can, it's also (mumbling).
So you can, if you just got this.
- You basically copy this, what you just highlighted
here and paste it into the query box in Browser.
And then you execute.
- For instance, if I do this here,
then it runs the Overflow guide.
Oops. Oh, this is sandbox.
- Oh, here we go. (speaking indistinctly)
- Yeah, exactly.
So basically it explores StackOverflow
as a way of looking at creating and content correlations.
So it's what we did a few weeks ago as well.
So, yeah, that's mostly the things that I wanted to show,
and these are kind of new ways of getting data into Aura,
and now I can get rid of all these databases again.
And so I can just do destroy.
That again, and then they're gone.
That's what it's--
Oh, then you can also go to (indistinct) as well.
- Exactly, I mean, you will only have one,
so you can either destroy it, or you can always
batch delete, and then clear it out or just overwrite it
with a dump file, as we just learned.
This will also clear out everything that's there before,
so if you already have one running and you don't want
to switch region, I would recommend not to delete it
and rather, either import the dump file
or delete everything in your graph.
Because if you want to do something right away,
then you will have some downtime because if you delete
the one and then you create the new one, it might take
a few minutes and then you, you know, you lose some time
if you don't wanna wait, then it's better to just
delete everything in there.
- Cool.
And there's also a trick you can do if you have an empty
dump file that doesn't contain any data.
You can also upload an empty dump file and then you go,
basically, replace everything in your database
with an empty dump file so then there's nothing,
so it will also get all the indexes and constraints,
and all the other things, so you don't
have to upload the whole database again.
(mic crackling)
So there's that.
- Yeah, that's a good trick.
- Cool. So, that's it from me for today.
- All right, cool.
Thank you, Michael.