- I say J launcher really knew
a large gigantic exhibition as well.
- Yes
- There was some hints on Twitter some days before.
I don't know if some of you have seen that,
but it was quite impressive.
Yesterday they launched again, like, I don't know,
20, 30, 40 stories around the world based on Pandora leaks,
how it's called datasets,
probably opening the box of Pandora
(laughing)
when they run out of
(crosstalk)
If they run out of pivots at some point
Pandora papers Leaks in between as well.
- There was some other influence and files.
Yes, definitely.
But I guess, these leaks, this is Panama paradise,
Pandora leaks, I guess.
It's a theme,
I thought the same at some point.
I initially thought, okay, there might not be enough leaks,
but now I think they run out of P words.
(both laughs)
- I think what happens first.
What's the Facebook leak on the weekend as well.
So with the Facebook internal documents being leaked
and discipline.
So lots of brave people highlighting works
of half legal or illegal activities and all kinds of places.
So feeling impressive how courageous these folks are
to do this.
- Absolutely. Yes, very much so.
And I think, no, no, you go ahead.
- Because of the money involved,
it's also really dangerous, right.
So, if they're like hundreds of millions
or hundreds of millions dollars in play,
then it's easy to send your humorous quote
after I will be quite scared actually,
to be honest,
most will come with this kind of data because
there are lots of very powerful
and very dangerous people as well that are involved
in these kinds of things.
- And yeah, exactly.
Like you said, and particularly also wealthy people.
So they probably don't shy away
from spending a few of their illegal cash euros dollars,
whatever on some kind of activity
that wouldn't be very nice.
- And it was kind of surprising again to see,
I'm just pulling it up now, if you can see that.
So this is the ICG website.
- Yeah.
Okay.
Let's I can use your screen then. Yep.
- Where they have all the stories of the Pandora papers.
Why does it not scroll?
For some reason it stopped scrolling.
Oh no, it's good.
So they have basically videos and for stories
here on the website, and then they have one more detail,
a story over here that they explain a little bit more
of what's in the data, how many documents?
So it was 12 million documents, lots of texts documents,
but also PDF bank reports, contracts, passports,
bank statements, and all of this kind of stuff.
Some structured data like CSV and DB files
and spreadsheets and so on.
But if I'm just time because they also had this time,
US as a safe Haven, so like South Dakota.
So it's really interesting to see also kind of
that it's just time,
not just the people that hide their money in Panama
or Cayman islands, but there's also
a lot of U.S stuff as well.
All right, so you see that anyone,
U.S states basically have the most
South Dakota has 81 trust in the Pandora paper.
And we have a see more U.S information
coming out of that as well.
And I'm also happy to see the DSTG again,
use curious to credit graph of two data.
Unfortunately data is not yet available,
so you'll have to wait a little bit,
but perhaps you're lucky and next time on our next stream,
we can actually look at some of the data at least-
- Hopefully, yeah.
- That will be really cool.
But it depends on (indistinct) set here at the end.
Where is it?
Yes, they're going to release the data,
but it's basically not yet.
So similar-
- Similar to last time, I think they probably gonna
work a little bit more on it
and then they're gonna release it, obviously.
I think what they did last time was they didn't release it
all they anonymized and then removed
some stuff of it.
But I guess that's what they need to do now before they can-
- Yeah, exactly.
So they only publish like companies and officers,
but they don't publish things like passport information
or like personal information or bank records directly.
So they only publish this structure.
So which we've shared companies are there,
which law firms are involved, which banks are involved
and which people are the ultimate owners as well.
So you see actually people behind the scenes
that are actually owning these companies.
So that's actually really interesting then.
- It's very interesting, yeah.
And I think that's also like what Cobra just asks is,
do you think it's possible to combine Pandora papers to
other papers, the Panama papers
or the paradise papers and maybe even
fencing fives or whatever.
And I actually, I think it's totally fair to say
that this is possible.
And then probably I would say the ICJ is doing this already.
- Yep, that's what I said here.
I said ICJ is planning to incorporate data
from the Pandora papers into the offshore leaks database.
So it will be one gigantic database.
I don't know if you're seeing...
If you go to the offshore leaks database,
they have no $785 in share companies there.
So basically you have every leak,
there are like two or $300 additional being added.
And so it kind of continues to grow.
If you look at like this,
then you see paradise paper added so many
and Panama paper added up many
and so you basically can look at,
how much each league added
to this overarching database as such.
So it will become a larger and larger database basically,
and they will make it publicly available as well.
So looking forward to that as such,
and hopefully we can explore it either next time
or one of the next times as such.
- Yep, and then, yeah, maybe I can quickly go over here.
So I think what was interesting is
that they also have this power player view,
thing where they basically, you pick one
of the interesting people.
And I just picked the first one on the list,
Abdullah II, and then
you give some information what's in the
Pandora papers about the guy and something.
And then if you scroll further down,
you get a little visualization of the graph
of his connections.
So you see he is very involved with all kinds of entities.
You can zoom in a little bit and then you
see some more details about entities.
And here you see, for example,
this company here does whatever things
and let's get some more details and related stories.
So I think that that's pretty cool.
Yes, Cobra on Twitch, they are using a Neo4J Aura Free.
Which is the-
- It's also in the article.
So if you read the article, they mentioned actually
that the use liquids and for gender.
It's interesting that you found the Pope here it's feature
because I tried to find it yesterday
and yesterday it was not yet online.
So they must have updated it.
- Yeah, maybe I can post the link in chat.
- Please do, that will be relevant.
- So, yeah, they have all.
This is like here you see the full list of people they have
as particularly interesting.
And you can go on anyone else,
so you could go, for example, I don't know, Pia princess,
Lalla Hasnaa from Morocco.
And then it gives you who she is and what she did,
and then that narrow connection, so in this case,
she is the beneficial owner of one
trust here in the British Virgin islands, yeah.
- Cool.
Because last time they published,
I think it was when they actually publish the Panama papers.
What we actually did is because we didn't want to wait
for their data publication,
we just grab the data from the power players, web UI.
So because you can access the Jason from net,
but I need to look into that.
And so perhaps we can look at this next time,
the fact load directly from the power players future.
- Maybe or I mean, I guess
they provide the data and at some point,
so we'll see how long it takes them,
but I'm pretty confident that probably a couple of days,
maybe weeks.
- Yeah, sounds good.
- All right, this is exciting.
But today we actually wanted talk about
Neo4J Aura Free with you and me.
(laughs)
So quickly what is Neo4J Aura Free?
I guess we talked about this a couple of times,
but we will go over this again.
We will pick a data set.
If you have a data set you would like us to explore.
Please let us know.
We would always be interested in getting new data sets,
interesting challenges
or interesting data to model.
Obviously, yes, this new ICH leak
will be hot on our top list basically.
So we will look into that as soon as it's available.
Then we think about what kind of questions we might ask.
So how would a model look like?
What kind of data modeling tools would we use,
or we usually use arrows.
And when we go about talking about
what the questions we want to solve from the data,
and this would usually form a kind of model,
which would then try to transform over from,
let's say virtual whiteboard onto the database itself.
Determine the data then load the query, obviously.
So this is the plan for today.
So then I'll quickly talk about what Neo4J Aura Free is.
So it is the free version of Neo4J Aura.
So it's simple as that.
You get 50,000 nodes and 175,000 relationships for free.
You get access to Neo4J Bloom as well.
And browser, which obviously
is part of all a Neo4J editions.
It's free forever.
So that's one of the big differences between
Aura and sandbox,
which closes down after seven days maximum.
And if you wanna get it, you just go to the link.
I'll post a link in chat in a second.
If you are watching this on Twitch,
you can just type exclamation mark Aura,
and then you get the link ping back to you.
And then you can set up an instance and follow along.
The initial load is a little bit long.
So if you wanna play along with what we are gonna do today,
you might do it better, do it now.
Or if you're, maybe you have something already set up,
then you are good to go.
And yeah, let's dive into it.
The data set today,
we look into the movie graph a little bit.
I think we did before already,
but the point here is we wanted just see
how easy it is to import data from an existing sandbox,
from dump files you might have,
and get an initial load into Neo4J Aura Free
if you have something already with you
in a different database environment.
So that's the goal for today.
And yeah, I'll stop sharing.
Shall we dive in?
- Yeah, by the way,
don't forget to tell us where you're watching from.
We really interested to see where people are watching from.
Hey, Cam, nice to see you in general,
really love to hear where people are kind of
watching the stream from.
So today I wanted to kind of
look at the ways of how you can get like
existing, larger data sets into Aura as well.
So imagine you get some data from somewhere
already in the VJ, and how do you get this into Aura?
And also the Aura team launched a sandbox side feature
last week, which allows us to actually start a new instance,
50 movie data set to start with.
Okay, so if you look at this,
perhaps you want to look at this first.
So just a disclaimer,
I have lots of Aura Free databases here,
but that's a special-
- It's a special pack.
- So basically you get one or a free database,
just because I want to show all these kinds of
different things the Aura team gave me permission.
I think I'm the only one of very few people who have
more than one, or a few data base.
What I wanted to show you here, I said,
if I create a new Aura database,
I can give it a name like for instance, movies
and then select region,
depending on where you are latency wise,
it's good to choose either Europe,
U.S or Singapore for Asia Pacific.
So I'll choose Belgium for the time being.
And the new thing is
you can either create a blank database, which is empty,
or you can create one with the movies dataset.
And so I'll create this database
in the background that shows me again the password
that I can copy and store,
and then I just let it run because it takes a while
to spin this up.
And we come back to this movie setup later on.
I just stored the password here and why we're doing this,
I wanted to show you some other things as well.
So SEO, probably know, I don't know if you know,
but in your fidget sandbox,
you can create your own data sets.
You don't just need to use the existing
prepared data sets, but you can also add your own datasets
as we've shown a few times before.
So in this case, I have a blank sandbox here,
and I just open it for the browser.
And thanks to our colleague, Rick fond Brogan.
I got a really nice cipher statement here,
which would create a graph for us.
And it does this by actually parsing Wikipedia.
So it basically goes to Wikipedia
with a Dutch version of Wikipedia.
And so you have like this table here with all kinds of
beer types and breweries and alcohol percentages,
and that's all fine.
And Rick wanted to test something.
If you can directly load from the HTML page,
the data, to input into Neo4J.
So you've wrote a statement that basically loads the HTML
and then extracts different things from that.
So you see these are like
HTML or CSS selectors,
or J code selectors that you can say a table,
the figure table of table body, table road, table cell,
and then the first one, the second one and so on.
And it extracts the brand to be a type aggregate percentage
for you and time from those tables
and then for all of these tables.
If I just run with some sandbox like this,
let's see what happens.
There's my sandbox here, this is my sandbox browser.
If I just turn value here,
then I get a list of let's see,
I hope it's not too much data for my browser to net on.
Come on-
- There are lots of beers in Belgium (laughs).
- So it's one gigantic record.
I think that's the reason why it took so long.
So you see here breweries with the text,
then there are all the beer types and then so on.
So it has all the data from the website extracted.
And so this is unfortunately something you can't do an Aura
because a bulk load load in Ishmael is not available
Aura for security reasons.
So you can use sandbox to create actually our data.
So I drew a little ASCII graph here,
so beer brand, have a beer type,
beer brand are brewed by a brewery.
And the beer brand has a certain alcohol percentage.
So it's basically what's in there, if I'm not mistaken.
And so this is our little graph,
and now I can in sandbox just run this whole statement
and it will create all these beers and breweries
and alcohol percentages.
Oops, alcohol percentages for you.
And I just have to crack this copy and paste a little bit.
- (laughs).
By the way, did you see this from, I don't know who,
who made us know available.
Maybe you should get this (laughs).
Don't wanna completely derail our Aura session here,
but this is-
- This is actually the April's fool's joke,
from pharmaceutical floor,
and now custody evaluations
and some others have actually brought it to life.
It's actually a high quality machine,
aluminum keyboard within a USB,
and it's really programmable.
So you can also change completely what it does.
It doesn't need to be copy and paste.
It can be anything else as well
for your home automation system or whatever you want to do
with that as well.
So it's pretty cool.
And you can now buy it for $60 or something like that.
So it's pretty cool.
What, it does not like me.
Let's see.
I think there are too many beers in Belgium.
It's upset, let's see if this works.
- Yeah, that's fine.
- So what I wanted to show is basically,
if you get your data from somebody else
or you saw a blog post or something else
where someone created some data in sandbox
and you just want to do the same and then want to
take the data into Aura, it will be available forever.
Then that's something that you can use here.
So let's hope this works now.
I hope I didn't break anything here.
I didn't create any indexes.
So it might be that it's a little bit slow.
What is wrong here?
Or perhaps, I mean, it's just for demonstration.
I need to check once we addressed it perfectly in sandbox.
Okay, let's just do a tiny graph.
Okay, so it has worked.
So now I have beers with beer brands and breweries in here
and I can see the data.
So that's just my little example graph that I have in here.
We have alcohol percentages, we have parole rates.
We beer brands and that's all.
So the interesting bit is now,
actually I want to take this data and what to take it
into Aura as such.
So I go back to my sandbox UI,
and there's a new thing that we just released a few weeks
ago, which is called makeup backups.
So I can just request the backup.
And for my database now will launch in
background process that will
generate a backup for my database.
So it's cued into an backup queue.
And then from there generators backup.
So this will also take a few seconds.
So while we're waiting for this,
we can actually go back and see if our movie database
is done yet.
Well, it's not done yet.
So while waiting-
- There was a quick question in the chat,
if we can get the decipher to do this.
So absolutely, yes.
There is a guitar repository.
We will update after each session and then you can,
you find all the code there we used during these sessions.
So you can go back in time basically,
and check out the old ones or read on about
the session so the update is coming later.
- So just to get up a positive, it's called Neo4J examples,
discover Aura Free.
Perhaps Alex, you can also post-
- I'll post a link in the chat, yeah.
- And tears for each week basically
what you've done or what Lou and Alex did initially.
And now Alex and I are doing for two week
that we'll add there as well.
So we have our beer here, here's our sandbox,
and now it's a credit sandbox stamp today at this time.
And I can request a download link and it will go away
and create a download link for me.
And now I can do download,
and it will download my plank sandbox dump.
And I can just turn
200 into beers dump.
And in Aura itself,
I have already prepared a database, it's called sandbox
that I can now select a dump file here to upload.
- You can do this with any-
- Any dump file.
But this is like our dump file from our sandbox database.
And uploads it, and it takes a bit,
and then the beer data should be available in all of our set
for our database as well.
So that's how you can take data that
either exists in a sandbox,
or you build something incrementally overtime in sandbox,
or you have a script or blog post from someone
who did things in sandbox,
you have a few additional libraries that are installed
in sandbox, but not in Aura.
Then you can use this and then create a dump
and then basically get your data as a continuation.
Or is it because the sandbox goes away after 10 days.
So from that perspective,
it's nice because in Aura it stays a long, forever.
- Yeah.
If you started some kind of project on sandbox
and realized," oh, I now I would like to keep this going."
This is your way.
- Exactly, exactly.
Which reminds me of something, there's a new thing
in Aura Free is,
when you have free databases running after 48 or 76 hours,
I think after 76 hours, it pauses them
and then you can resume them later on.
So that's just a cost saving measures,
so if people are not using their free databases.
We just pause them temporarily
and then you can consume them.
So they're still there, they won't go away,
but it's they're paused as such.
Okay, so this was kind of our sandbox database,
which is the loading.
And then the other thing,
while we're waiting for those two Aura database
to get ready is the following.
For all the sandbox datasets,
you have also prepared data repository,
actually an organization it's called Neo4J-graph-examples.
And it has 25 repositories.
One is actually a template for the 25 depositories
with all kinds of datasets.
So we have stack overflow,
we have the crime investigation portals and box.
We have a Twitch sandbox.
We have a different combination sandbox,
Twitter sandbox, Northwind, Yelp, Twitter, trolls,
and so on.
Open street map and all these repositories don't just have,
if you want to look at the information sandbox here,
they have example images, the data model,
they have example, fairies and also have code examples.
So each of these repositories also has code examples
for what the language is.
So for instance, if I want to look at a core example
for the liquidation database, I can go here and see that
this is like to go code for the recommendation database
50 correct vary for recommendation as well.
And before the boilerplate code that you need for handling
the connection to the database, basically in that language.
And so you can just clone and Ronda's or Ronda's directly,
or you can just, Ronda's in a quote sandbox,
get up quotes and box.
So actually let's do this.
If I just press dot on any data repository.
It actually launches vs code in my browser.
And it actually makes this
just a suppository available to you
as an online life set up.
And then I can just say, I want to open.
Oh, they coming up not available, but I can click
continue booking on, and then it can launch a terminal.
And then I can actually run this code examples basically
directly from the suppository as well.
So I can create a fork of this and then run a code space
and then run these code examples as well,
connecting to my database as well.
So it's pretty cool because all of these examples
are runnable and I can just physically
just run them directly.
Anyway, slightly to one.
Let's see, this now has my things here.
So I can go to CD code JavaScript
for instance, and then I can do NPM install Neo4J,
which will install a Neo4J driver.
And then I can example got yes.
And then the only thing that I need to add,
it's my connection credentials here,
in the repository,
but actually what you can do is the following.
You can go to the sandbox
and we have our recommendation sandbox.
If I quit the commendation sandbox here, this one,
it actually replaces all the placeholders
that are in the code with the actual connection details.
So if I go here to connect to your drivers,
I actually see these examples here,
but with all the credentials over a little place.
So I can just put these data and paste is in here.
And that means if I now run note
example.yes,
then oops.
So no to comical chess, let's see.
If I connect to my sandbox
and I get the fairly run and the examples here.
So this is all running on my, basically in the browser.
This is BS code running there.
And I also have hyphen available,
I have OB available if I want to,
I have go available, I have rust and Cabo available.
I have PHP available.
So that's pretty powerful stuff.
So I have all the programming languages available
in this GitHub code space,
which is really cool.
So what I actually wanted to show you is the following.
If you go back to our repository,
for the geographic examples, foundations.
So the other thing that's also in these repositories
is this data photo, and you see two stamp files here.
And so we have 354043 dump,
and you can just download any of these dumps,
since the photo three dump,
and click on this, say download,
then it downloads the dump file.
And then in Aura I can also for any of these
sandbox data sets, if they fit into the limits here,
I can just select the dump file and say
recommendations for three dump and upload,
and then it will upload the dump
and initialize it in Aura as well.
- And maybe stupid questions,
but will this replace all the data
that is already in your sandbox?
- That's actually not a stupid question,
but a really important question
because it will replace all the data in your database.
So I think it also says so
when you say, select dump somewhere should actually say.
- I think there was a little pop up that came
but you clicked it away so quickly.
So maybe that was that.
Yeah, okay, good to know.
- Yes, it does completes all the data.
- So if you have anything on your Aura Free or
any other Aura instances it's not only Aura Free,
this is applicable to all.
- Yeah, exactly.
And while this is loading, we can actually look to,
let's finish with all our graph.
So this is called sandbox and I just opened it,
put your browser on this,
or actually can actually open bloom on this,
can explore the plea beyond bloom.
And I just need to copy the password
for the sandbox database.
Username is (indistinct).
- By the way, don't put a screenshot in these passports,
Michael will delete the instances afterwards.
So not really worth it.
- So you see it has covered all the notes types,
all the labels in here, and now I can say,
I want to see all the beer brands
and we find new brands and I can then say,
okay, for these beer brands
I also want to have the breweries
and then I can explore my data and bloom.
And so I can basically see from the brewery,
I can see which other brands for instance have
these kind of correlated things.
So you see it, all my data, I made it from sandbox.
We had a downfall into Aura and then also group
for visualization.
So you can then of course also select what to capture
and to be to icons and all the fun stuff
that you can do in Aura and such.
Alright, so should be yeah, yeah.
Relationships is always there and so on.
And so this was kind of the data from our sandbox
that we got from the backup in sandbox into Aura and such.
And then the other example was
the commendations database is still loading,
but movies database is interesting because
that was we have in red, we created the
Aura Free database we selected not a blank database,
but the movies database.
And if I open this browser,
I just get the password for the movies database.
So the only thing that still needs to be done
is here to click on silver connect.
So that's something that will be fixed soon,
but that's going to be still something that's
not showing by default.
So we'll connect Donald.
But now we have, to movies,
and here and 50 browser guides.
You can now for someone who's new to Neo4J
and PsiFi and Aura can explore
- Exactly.
- he state of the favorite box
that's very similar to sandbox.
And that's also the goal.
So that at some point Aura replaces sandbox.
- It does make sense.
And I think it's a great experience,
especially for a new user, fresh star to
you load some data,
you hear as it says, it gives you some code examples,
you click them and then they populate over in the query box
and then you just execute and then you see
some first results and then you play around with it.
And from there you develop more complex scenarios.
But for a start, I think this is still very, very good.
- Exactly.
So it's also contains information on creating data as well.
And so it's pretty comprehensive for someone to
quickly get through
getting started with PsiFi basically and such.
- Absolutely.
- Which is really nice.
- If you want more guiding, there's always graph academy.
So this is a little bit,
I wouldn't say, I mean,
it's also hands-on and it gives you some railways.
So you are helped,
but you're more told what what's happening in graph academy.
There's also sort of like, why is this happening
and what does it do?
And then so on.
- We actually also launched a new version
of graph academy just few weeks ago.
And if you want to try this,
this is kind of new version of graph academy,
which basically fundamental PsiFi,
fundamentals and modeling courses
coming in the next few weeks.
So we are adding more and more courses to this new version
of graph academy as well.
And so that's definitely there.
And you can of course also continue all the courses on
the existing graph academy while we are transferring them.
So if you want to take any of these courses
and most of them, actually,
all the courses that don't have graphic designs
and they're also refer for Aura as well.
So all the intro courses, import courses,
and then so on, also record Aura as well.
And our last example is the recommendations database,
which is still loading.
So we will have to wait for that to finish.
The other thing that I wanted to show you quickly is
when Neo4J are running your desktop,
you can also create dump files from your own databases.
So let me just start just to click quickly.
Sometimes people also have shared dump files as such.
So that's also a way of getting them,
but this is kind of mostly when you have an existing
Neo4J database somewhere or from someone,
then this dump file is the quickest data exchange format
from sandbox to desktop or to Aura
or from the desktop to Aura and then so on.
And sort of the quickest way of getting there.
- Yeah, and I think that that's particularly interesting.
Because you might have started something
with desktop or like you said,
somebody else said, Hey, I have this data set,
which you wanna share publicly,
but they can give it to you.
And then you can upload the dump to your Aura
free instance if it fits the mutations
and then you can play with it
and sort of start this collaboration
project a little bit on it.
- Yep, exactly.
So this currently doesn't like me, so I think it's...
Of course I just updated desktop over like six versions.
So just 'cause I haven't used the Mac for quite some time.
So it's been...
Oh, no, okay, cool.
- Oh, here we go.
- Here we go.
- So we can take one of the example datasets,
like here's an employees database
or like example test database or something like that
or what else do I have here?
Lots of people.
Game of Thrones.
Sometimes it's a party or Game of Thrones.
That's I want to have a more current one.
Let's see
if we find for something.
So this are all a little bit older databases.
Let's see, for instance, if you take this one, I can say,
create a dumb file from this database
and then it will basically go ahead and create a dumb file
for me in the current folder.
And then I can use this dumb file to also upload it
to Aura as well.
But that's also something that I can then do.
So I hope to do this, I've selected dump.
Could be that because of my Viet update thing here
that didn't do it yet.
- Does it need to run to make a dump-
- I don't think so.
Because I think it would be...
Well, it doesn't like me.
I have to create a new one.
So I think that was
because I haven't done desktop on this machine
for quite some time.
- But I mean basically yes, you click on-
- You click on data and then it creates a dumb phone, yeah.
Exactly.
So I know online recommendations database is still loading
should be done by now.
It's still loading.
So some of these things are also basically put in a queue
and then whenever the queue is ready to handle the data,
then it's actually processed.
So it's not necessarily, I know it's ready.
It's not certainly necessarily immediate.
So it's basically queued up
in the background as well to be processed.
- Yeah, so that's why it takes sometimes
a little bit longer.
- (Indistinct).
And now I have my sandbox recommendations dataset in here
that I hopefully, let's see.
Yes, so you have $20 in actors movies, people users,
and $166 in relationships in here.
So that's kind of the full sandbox data.
I don't know if I use place and Fox commendations
in the (indistinct).
Then I have my movie club and I can, for instance,
run one of these guides, let's see,
perhaps this one.
And if all goes well,
then we should see exactly content recommendations
for overlapping dramas, right?
And you can continue to explore this data,
which is really nice.
So I recently updated it to more recent movies as well
from the movie lands dataset.
So all this data is more recent than it used to be,
so there's much more data in there,
but it's also movies and data as well.
- Oh, cool, that's great.
- And just to repeat, all these datasets are in this,
so new for geographic sandbox organization,
and you can just pick and choose
whatever data sets you are interested in,
to get the dump files and then import them into Aura
or such, so there's a lot of fins and files
because you just mentioned Fins, for instance.
- Panama papers.
- Panama papers, paradox papers, exactly yeah.
All these kind of things are in there as well.
So lots of contact tracing network and opens sweep net
and so on.
So there's, network management is also good.
So there's a lot of data sets that you can explore
from that perspective as well.
I think also more, so for instance,
which one is in new (indistinct) also new,
which doesn't access this sandbox yet?
Even that's what it's to become a sandbox.
- Okay, nice.
Or if you can't wait for that to become a sandbox,
you can already go ahead-.
- Then you can put it into Aura, exactly.
And then the guide is available as
(indistinct) in the next page.
So you can send a bit, (indistinct).
- Yeah, you basically copy this
what you just highlighted here and paste it into
the query box in browser and then you execute.
- Okay, speaking, for instance, if I do this here then
it runs (indistinct), oops.
Oh, this is sandbox.
- Yeah, here we go.
(indistinct)
- Yeah, exactly.
So basically it exposed the overflow
as a way of looking at grading
and conduct correlations and tech correlation.
So it's similar to what you'd have did a few weeks ago.
Yeah, that's fine.
So yeah, that's mostly the things that I wanted to show,
and these are kind of new ways of getting data into Aura.
And now I can get rid of all these databases again,
so I can just do this, try
them again, and then they're gone.
So that's
how you can then also get rid of them as well.
- Exactly, I mean, you will only have one,
so you can either destroy it or you can always detach delete
and then clear it out or just overwrite it
with a new dump file as you just learned,
this will also clear out everything that's there before.
So if you already have one running
and you don't wanna switch region, I would recommend
not to delete it and rather
either import it on file or delete everything in your graph.
Because if you wanna do something right away,
then you will have some downtime
because if you delete the one and then you create a new one,
might take a few minutes
and then you lose some time if you don't wanna wait,
then it's better to just delete everything in there.
- Cool.
And there's also a trick that you could do is,
if you have an empty dump file
that doesn't contain any data,
you can always upload an empty dump file and then upload
basically replace everything in your database
with an empty dump file so with nothing.
So it will ultimately get rid of all the indexes
and constraints and all the other things.
And so you have a plain database again (indistinct).
- That's a good trick, yeah.
- Cool, so that's it from me, for today.
- All right, cool.
Thank you Micheal...