- [Alex] So, yeah, this is, the plan is really to,
to show you all how easy it is to get starting
with Neo4j Aura and how quickly you can, you know,
you have a set going.
So we wanna quickly, in this session,
show you what Neo4j Aura Free is.
What does it mean? Where do you get it?
Where do you need to go? And all of that good stuff.
Then we pick a data set.
So we are really hoping for you to share with us,
if you have any open datasets you'd like us to explore.
Ideally, you go to Discord and share them with us there,
but you can also reach out on Twitter and anywhere else.
I have picked this week's dataset.
It's a board game dataset from Board Game Geek,
so we can look at that a little bit later.
But, you know, if you have anything in that regard,
any CSV file will really do. We are flexible.
It just needs to be openly available on the internet.
Not, not some, not some hidden thing somewhere.
Then we think about questions we might ask.
So obviously we want to explore a little bit.
We go a little bit into modeling.
We go a little bit into what kind of questions we can,
we can get from that dataset.
And that's basically it, that is, that is a start.
And, and then, you know, we always share at the end,
our results and how we went - Yes.
- in a (indistinct) repository.
So you can always, if you wanna.
So last week's set's here exactly.
Here's the NBA dataset we did last week.
If you want to redo this, you can just go there
and get the data, get the links, CR queries.
We will do the same for today's session.
So you can always repeat what we do.
- Yeah and you can always re-watch recordings, too.
So you see here, for example, here,
- Exactly. - there should be a link
to the recording from last week.
So we, everything's going to be captured
so you can watch this again.
You can just read through the notes and get help.
You've got the options there.
So that's fantastic.
So quickly, we've also got David from South Africa.
So since... Oh. 10:00
- Hey, good morning. - Yeah. 10:00 in the morning.
Good morning, good morning.
We've also got Arivend as well,
joining us also from India.
So also, hopefully you're on your lunch break, too.
So bon appétit, enjoy.
- Yep. Enjoy lunch break. Yes.
- All right, let's do this.
Okay, we're gonna load the query.
So very quickly, what is Neo4j Aura?
It's Neo4j database's service, so it's up on the cloud.
So it's a managed service.
So you don't have to download the instance.
You don't have to install it and it's look, you know,
you don't have to configure it all.
All that's looked after for you.
It's managed graph infrastructure
and basically Aura will keep everything up to date.
So keep it up to date with the versions of Neo4j.
It will manage backups for you, provide continuous uptime,
all of that good stuff, overseas monitoring, and so forth.
So you've got a link there to go to Aura.
And what we're looking at,
and this is basically the whole series,
is we're doing everything on Neo4j Aura Free.
So it's a free version of Neo4j Aura.
So there are some limitations.
So you've got up to 50,000 nodes and 175,000 relationships,
but you've still got access to Neo4j Bloom & Browser.
So you can do all of that good stuff. It's free forever.
And again, you go to the same address
to get you to the Aura page.
So what you can do is you can sign up there
and you can get a free instance of Neo4j Aura,
so, though, a Neo4j Aura Free version.
So if you are joining along, so again,
if you want to keep coming,
we're here every Monday, same time.
So if you want to code along with us,
you're more than welcome to so you can get yourself set up
and then you are good to go.
So that's Neo4j Aura, and like Alex said,
all this is all about getting you up and running.
What you will find is we will always pick a dataset
that you can easily pull in with LOTUS-V
or some of the APOC functions.
So the idea is you do not need to download anything.
And the only thing you need to sign in is Aura Free
so everything else we're going to do it so
that you can just access it and pull.
So it should be nice and easy for you
to be able to play along
and get a feel for what's going on with Neo4j. So...
- [Alex] Exactly. And if you have any questions,
I mean obviously we are here.
So if you want want to know anything, type it in chat.
We will probably have some time
and answer your questions.
- Yes. Any questions ask away?
We are both keeping an eye on the chat.
So chuck them in, we'll pick them up as we go along.
And, actually, we do have a bit of user participation.
So Alex talked about, we're looking at a,
we're looking at a broad game dataset.
So if you've got any questions you'd want to ask of the data
or query questions, then let us know.
So I found some questions from last time.
"Are we analyzing chess this week?"
No, but as you probably know, Fountain_hook, I love chess.
I play a lot of chess.
So I've played in various competitions and things.
So watch this space.
We definitely going to do a chess related one at some point.
So I just need to dig about and find a good dataset.
Definitely going to do it. Oh, Chess World Cup.
Let's see, let's have a look at what we can do
with the Chess World Cup and have a bit of thinking,
but that is a good shout out.
- [Alex] That's a good suggestion. Thank you, Fountain_hook.
I think that's an interesting set for sure.
So yeah, this week it's about board games.
Chess is a board game.
So technically we probably will touch slightly. (laughs)
We're gonna touch slightly on chess as well,
but in this case, it's,
it's a pull from somebody
at GitHub that did it.
It's a few years old, so it's not the most recent pull,
but the page he scraped
or they scraped was BoardGameGeek.com,
which is the biggest board games sites
- Yeah.
- and board game community on the internet.
And it has every board game - Carmen De Link
- Yeah. - I know, this is the website.
It comes from somewhere.
There's a list telling you of all the popular games.
- Exactly. And then if you quickly click on that,
on that CSV file again, - Yep.
- or we can, we can quickly see.
So yeah, it has an ID. So every game has an ID.
It has a name, obviously.
So, for example, here's the first line
of Twilight Struggle is the video game.
It has a release,
year published is the release year 20, 2005.
Then it has a minimum players and maximum players.
So this game, this player,
this game can only be played by two people,
playing time so that's 180 minutes,
which is also the suggested time.
Then the minimum age, so from 13 on you can play this game.
Users rated means the ratings of every user
that has this game
or even knows this game can give it a rating
from zero to 10.
And this game got 8.33774. So a pretty good one.
And that's sort of like the, yeah, the average rating here.
Then there are owners, traders, wanters.
So that means people who own this game,
people who would like to sell or get rid of this game,
and people who want this game as a wishlist kind of setting.
I think we can ignore the comments.
And then I get another data point that's interesting
for us today will be the weights.
So weights means the difficulty of this game,
the complexity sort of as, also a weight from,
I think this is from some zero to five
or is it also from zero to 10?
I'm not sure. I think it's from zero to five.
- Know what? We can write a Cypher query
to figure that out shortly. - Yeah. (laughs)
- So hold that thought. And we can,
when we load in the data,
we can actually do something to have a look what that is, so
- Exactly, yeah. That's a good - Hold that thought.
Put that question in. - Yeah.
And the average weight is obviously the average of that,
of that number. - Brilliant.
So what we're gonna do is let's dive straight in
and let's have a quick look at the data.
So obviously here, it's a little bit hard to see
that as a CSV.
So what we can do is let's just do the load CSV, pull it in,
and look at a couple of rows.
So there I am, you can see I've already got my instance
of Neo4j Aura Free setup.
So this is the same one from last week's.
So those of you, you can create, it takes a few minutes.
So I'm just, I've just entered it.
And I'm just reusing the same one from last week.
I'm going to open this with Browser.
So I'm going to need to put in some cred's as well.
So do not forget when you create your instance,
- That's a good point.
- to copy the password in a safe place.
Because if you lose your passwords,
you'll have to destroy a database and start again.
(laughs) So don't lose, - You have to delete it all
and you have to, yep exactly - don't forget passwords.
- That's not good.
- All right. Let's just quickly load in a file.
So this is like for those of you who are not familiar,
so this is just basically the load CSV.
So this is gonna go off and load the CSV from the address
so we can load it from URI's.
So here, we're using the link here
to the raw CSV output from GitHub.
So this is what we love.
So this, we can just pull it from any public place
and have, and work with that. So I'm just doing that as row.
And let's just have a look at the first five rows.
So the return row limit five.
That's gonna go away, download that CSV,
and then return back the first five rows.
So here we go. So what Alex was going through earlier.
- Here it is much, much better to read. Yeah.
- A lot easier to read now isn't it?
- Yeah. (laughs) Yes. Yes.
Yeah, and here you see it again.
What I just mentioned to you, you know, you see,
you see the weights, the traders, the comments.
This is like basically the wanters of wishes.
This is actually people,
individual accounts on Board Game Geek.
And then, yeah, it's an average rating, for example, 8.33,
right there in the middle, that is a,
the player's name, players count basically.
So this is a two-players game, but obviously people
who play games will have more than two people,
so what does that say from two to eight maybe something.
Playing time, two below is also, is in minutes.
So yeah, 180 minutes, it's kind of like the suggested time.
It could be longer, could be shorter obviously.
The name, obviously, is important. (laughs)
What kind of game is it?
And then the average rating is also interesting.
So... - Yes
- What did people think of this game?
- Yeah. Absolutely. So quick question from Bokjo who says,
Is there support,
"Is there now support for multiple Dbs
in one aura instance?"
Not at the moment. No.
So if you want multiple DBs in a single instance,
you need to use Enterprise edition of Neo4j
at the moment for that.
But of course, what you can do is, with Aura,
is you can spin up more than one database or instance.
So you can, if you, if you need more than one database,
you can spin up more than one.
But obviously that would be the Aura Professional.
And so that those are the ones that you'd be pulling up.
So you can have more than one Aura Professional
but obviously that's not free.
You can have one single free account of Aura, Aura Free.
Okay, so what was the one that we were talking about?
Or you said, where was the complexity?
What was the complexity one?
- That's weight, so average weight.
Yeah, exactly. - Perfect, weight.
- Right, so let's go ahead and have a quick look
at what's the, what games are the maximum,
the highest average weight. - Yeah.
- And we can figure out if it's,
is it one to five or one to 10?
So this is using the, using an anvil to crack a nut,
but hey, why not? (Alex laughing)
- You know, it's all, we're all learning.
All right. So let's do that.
So let's do
"with row."
What did we say it was called?
It was "row." Ah...
name, yeah.
"row.name as name,"
and "row.average_weight as weight,"
Let's pick that game rating as well.
Maybe we'll want to know about what games are fun.
So we're just gonna pull a couple of, like you know,
a couple of bits just to see what's going on.
So "average_rating as rating"
and we're gonna redo "order by weight" descending
And, oh, so what I should do.
Yep. Yep. Yep. So what I've done here is...
"return row.name, row"
oh, no don't do that
I want to do "return name, weight, rating"
No, okay, that's what we want.
And...
- You used weightm is needed.
- Yeah, you know don't buy cheap Bluetooth people.
If I can offer one bit of advice.
If you don't have to,
don't buy the cheapest Bluetooth keyboard.
(Alex laughing) - I can copy that.
So this is quite a big file so it has to download it
and put stuff into memory.
So we may need to rewrite this query ever so slightly,
just because of the fact
that there is memory limitations on Aura Free.
So I may have asked a bit too much of it.
- Hmm. Maybe.
- Maybe. Maybe, maybe. Ah, I just think...
so let me see if I can rewrite this query
in a bit more efficient way.
- That's a good thing to show that you can always click
that red square and you can...
Yeah, well, it stopped it by itself, but if you run
into this scenario, - not enough memory
- you can always stop queries.
- Yeah. So let me think about how we can do this.
So let's do, I'm going to just do,
Let's just do max rating,
just cause obviously that might be the easiest way
with max.
- I mean, technically you can, we can limit this
because we want to know what's the max number
so we can say we, we wanna...
- We can do this. But the, oops.
And then just return the rating but to the maximum.
Let's see what the max rating was.
Not rating, we wanted weight, didn't we.
Yeah, just fixed it. - We wanted weight.
Yes, but yeah.
- Okay.
It should be fine because it only has to pull one field out
of those things. - That's fine.
- Max weight's five. So yeah, it's one to five.
So it is, there you go, we've answered that question.
- (laughs) Good.
- All right, so the next bit is
what questions do we want to ask?
So everybody, what kind of questions would you want
to ask of this data?
So let's just bring back the previous query
where we pulled back the first five rows.
What kind of questions do we want to ask of this data?
What would you ask Alex? What's, what are you looking for?
- I mean, while everybody thinks,
I can think of a couple ones.
So I think we could, like we did with the weights,
we could check for the top, what the top rated games are.
What they are called?
We could check what,
because we know how many people own games,
so we can always check how many,
or what are the games that most people have
in their collection.
So we can have the... - Oh, I like that.
- the favorites, sort of.
- Yeah.
- And I think if we could technically do a,
an easy recommendation.
So because we know the player,
the player number, so we can say,
okay, I'm looking for a game for three players
with complexity or weight of, I dunno, four,
because I'm a board game connoisseur
and show me then the games
that have the best rating for that combination.
- Okay. I like that.
We've got a question in from Fountain_hook is, ooo,
which "games can I play with one friend
which will require at least 30 minutes of interaction"
- That's a good, that's a very good question also.
We also have the playing time. - I like that.
Let's stuck that one on the list.
- Yep.
- What games can I play with X friends
which require min Y minutes"
Oh, I like that.
I've just parameterized your question Fountain_hook.
I hope you don't mind.
Cause obviously we might want to change those variables,
but we will start off with T players
and minimum of 30 minutes, so, okay.
And I mean, there's so many questions I want
to ask from this.
I think there's this really interesting one.
- Do you have a question? Yep. Do you have something?
- So what would I want to ask? So I would.
Ah, so what I find really interesting
is the wanters and wishers.
So you said wanters are people who want to buy the,
who want to get this game.
And what was wishers?
- So, yeah, I think that's a very similar thing.
I think I, wishers are people
that have it on their wishlist.
So sort of like a collection of games
they potentially want to buy.
And I think wanters is a little bit more concrete.
They are sort of looking for a buy.
So that's correlating, I guess, with the trader so,
more or less who's selling and who's buying.
But the wishers would be the ones
that put them on their wish list and say, okay,
this is a game I'd like to buy next.
- Ah. So I'm not entirely sure how to do this.
So this might be another one
where we do a Board Game Geek part two and part three.
Who knows? (Alex laughing)
- But I think there's a couple of things
that jump out at me that's interesting.
So I'm gonna leave these for now.
So I think we've got loads of really interesting questions
to pull out this episode.
But a couple of things that jump out at me would be,
I want to know the ratio between these two,
because I think that's quite interesting.
So does that ratio correlate and what does that mean?
You know, what, how does that correlate
with all the other information that we've got here?
And the other thing that I find quite interesting is
where was it? It caught my eye.
Yes. Is I would love to know the relationship
between total owners and rating.
So I would like to know, is there some kind of correlation
where, you know, if there's lots of total owners, you know,
how does that relate to the average weight?
So does it mean, you know, can we infer things like,
if there's lots of total owners,
it's going to have a good rating and that kind of thing?
So that's interesting to me. - Ah. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
- And one thing we don't have in this dataset.
So I am having, I did have a look to see,
and there are some very interesting API's out there,
so I need to figure out how to get them working,
but there is a public API that someone put together
that allows you to take the ID
so that you would see here, there's no ID.
So this is the unique ID for the game on Board Game Geek.
And there's like a very funny API that pulls back some,
not particularly well-formed XML,
(Alex laughing)
- but I'm just looking into this,
but if I can get it working,
so this may be another visit, episode,
but what we can then do is pull back the game genre,
what type it is, all those other bits.
And then I think we can start
to pull a real interesting picture,
but that's for another episode.
But I think for now, let's keep where it is.
So let's take these questions, so what questions we've got?
We have got what are the top rated games
and what are they called.
We've got what games that are the most popular.
We've got finding a game for X number of players
with a complexity of Y.
And then we've got the question,
what games can I play with X friends
that require a minimum of Y minutes.
So we've got those questions.
So let's have a think about the data model.
- Yeah.
- So back with arrows, we're using arrows.app
because this is a really nice way to do it.
So what'd you think?
What'd you think we're going to start with?
What's the center of our universe?
- The center of our universe is probably a game.
- I think that's a fair shout. So let's put in.
So we're going to do label,
which is gonna be "Game"
and let's put in the ID
cause maybe we're going to come back to this
and that ID might be useful.
It's got a name. - It's got a name, yep.
I guess we're going to do Min Players.
- Oh, that's a good question actually because...
- If we want to answer question from Fountain_hook,
I guess we need that.
- Well, so this is, this is the question.
Hi, Pradna. Thank you for joining us.
- Hello?
- Somebody, someone else is on their lunch break.
Thank you. Thank you for spending you lunch break with us.
- Exactly. Yeah.
- So it's an interesting thing here.
Let me tell you what my head is thinking about this.
- Ah, huh?
- We can always refactor it.
So thing is, is that if we look
at the Min Players, Max Players,
so I think this is gonna be a fairly,
this is always gonna be a discreet number, isn't it?
So it's probably, I mean, - Yep.
- maybe there's gonna be some crazy game
where you've got a 100 people,
but I think it's always gonna be maybe,
make a rough assumption, it's gonna be say
between one and say eight players or one and 10 players
or something like that. - One and, yeah, that's, yeah.
- And if we're going to start asking questions,
then there's a part of me thinking, well actually,
would it make sense,
so we could have it as property on here,
but another part of me is wondering, well, do we do this?
So bear with me.
I will, I'll talk through my rationale here
So maybe you've got one here called Min Players.
And maybe we've got another one called Max Players.
Maybe get rid of this.
But the idea here is if we're gonna be asking lots
of questions about what games need a minimum number
of players or a maximum number of players
or something like that,
then what we can start to do is we can start to have loads
of games coming off, Min Players,
and loads of games coming off of Max Players.
So this is going to be a relatively small graph,
so it doesn't matter so much.
But if we wanted to start doing some interesting queries
about the relationship between Min and Max Players
in a game and maybe we had rating and that kind of thing,
then it might be quite an interesting thing
to pull apart and graph.
So just chuck that one out there for consideration.
- I think that's a good idea
because actually you're right these Min/Max Players.
I mean, we could even do, you know,
1, 1, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
So it's basically 10, 10 nodes sort of,
and then we always have looking at that
and starting, okay, I have Min Players two.
So I started this two
and then this is where I explore the graph.
Makes it much easier to land somewhere
then to have it to index and crawl to every game board node,
basically when I want to find - Hmm. Yeah.
- which is a player game for two players.
- Yeah, I was trying to make it a bit of graph as well.
Another thing worth considering
that maybe we might do is, let me get rid of this,
and I haven't figured out which ones,
but it's not too important.
So we can always just pick one and just run with it,
is we can do this to, No Players, as in number,
as opposed to no, no players for this game.
(Alex laughing)
We can do like No Players.
And then what we could do is maybe we do one here,
which is Min Players. - Ah, huh. Yeah.
- And then we would have another one, which is Max Players.
Maybe, yeah maybe I prefer this one.
- Yeah?
- Because this, the interesting thing about this is
if I don't care about the range of Min or Max Players,
then I just, basically, I could just do a query
to go through.
Another way I could do this, and there's many ways,
and I'm not sure what's the best way to do it.
This is something I think we'd have
to have a little think about
because there's so many ways of doing this.
Another thing we could do is,
we could imply the number of players.
Cause what we could do, ah, we could do something like this,
which would be, "Can Have" number of players.
And then like this, we don't have a Min or a Max
and we'd figure out the Min or Max
by going down the "Can Have" relationship
to number of players.
And then we do the Min Value of those nodes,
would be the minimum number of players.
And the Max Value would be the maximum number
of players you could have for that game.
- Yeah. And I know, I mean,
we're probably into the dataset is it's not in this one,
but I know that Board Game Geek
also collects the recommended number of players.
So every owner gives the suggestion of, let's say
this game is for two to four people,
but the ideal number is three.
So you, you have the most fun if you play it with three,
because with four, maybe it's too long
with two it's not a well thought out, but three is perfect.
So yeah.
- So there's lots of, lots of options, right?
- Yes. (laughs)
It's a, yeah, yeah. - Makes it a tough one.
And I think we may have to work through it to figure out
which is the right one. So which one,
which one should we go for Alex?
I'll let you pick. And then, you know, we can,
if we need to refactor and we refactor.
- Yeah. I think the first one was,
your first suggestion was I think I like most.
So, yeah. - Min and Max?
- Two queries with two separate nodes
or have various separate notes.
- Oh, you mean like a Min Player node and a Max Player node.
- Ah, hum. - Okay. All right.
Let's do that.
So let's do, how do we do this? We had a...
- Well, what we would, what we could do now
that I think of it is we could call it
player, a player, a mountain, and be called...
We called them one, two, three, four, five.
So we create like 10 notes, something, you know,
and then the game always points to,
depending on the Min and Max numbers to a separate node.
- So do you pick them? - Let's say, yeah.
So let's say we have, we create 10 nodes
that say Player Count and says 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
and then a game has a relationship Min Player
- Yep.
- And it goes to the two Player Count 2,
and Max goes to Player Count 4,
- Yep. - and then if we,
if we create that, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah. So let's do that.
So let's do this and then just do Value for this.
This should be the number of players,
and then we have two relationships. Don't we?
So we have a Min Player and a Max Player.
- Yep, yep, yep.
So I've got a question that's come in.
So great question by Kessel_six, which is
"When you have a property on the game,
rather than its own node,
it's more of a configuration thing, than a real entity."
So the interesting thing about this,
that is a really interesting question and yes we could.
And I'm painfully aware that we could have put all
of this information, to answer our questions,
could all have been properties in a node.
Couple of things around that one. It's not very graphy.
So we'd end up with no relationships.
The interesting thing around this
is I always ask the question of,
is it a discreet value that we're putting in
or is it like a range value?
So you think about rating and the rating that we see
at the moment is a range value.
We may decide to do some kind of bucketing around that,
but the moment rating is a range value.
So we need to figure out where we're going to put that.
The interesting thing about Player Count,
especially if you look at the data,
is yes maybe there's some random board game
where you can have a 100 people playing it,
but the vast majority are probably gonna have a cutoff
of about eight, so be probably one to eight.
And the interesting thing is, is if we pull it out,
so how do we turn this into a graphy thing?
And the interesting thing about having the Player Count
as a node, and again,
there's lots of different ways around this,
but interesting about having it as a,
having it as a Player Count is if we want to ask questions,
like give me all the board games
that require a minimum of one person.
Cause you know, I, it's raining outside
and I just wanna spend some time playing a game.
Then you would go to the plug, Player Count nodes
and then you would go off and find all of the board games
that have a Player Count of one.
And that's quite an efficient query to write
because you're not having to do a property look up
on every single game node to tell you, all of the things,
you know, has a Player Count of one.
What we're doing is we're saying, no.
We go to this node here and we just chase the relationship.
So this is where you make it efficient.
So another question here has been asked,
and this is basically what it comes down to,
which is the best practice question,
which is when is something a node?
When is something a property?
When is something a relationship?
And all of this will be driven
by what questions are you asking?
Now we've got one question here,
two questions actually we've got,
which are asking about number of players.
You've got one question that Alex suggested,
which was game for X number of players.
And then we had a question from Fountain_hook,
which was games that I can play with X players.
So these are all focused on number of players.
So in my head as an initial model,
it makes sense to pull this out as a node
because that's where a lot of questions are appearing.
So hopefully that kind of makes sense as to what's going on.
So let's do this and we've got a few more bits to add.
I'm going to start pulling some data in
and asking questions. You've got Min Players.
And a nice thing about this one is you knew only ever,
you only ever have two relationships
about players coming off of game.
And we can always by query then figure out
what the difference is rather than pulling back, you know.
In this crazy idea, we've got a 100 players,
and they have like a 100 relationships coming off the game.
So, this is quite nice, I think.
Okay. So we had questions about Player Count.
Another question we've got are
which games are the most popular,
so that is using the average rating.
So where should we pop average rating? Do you think?
- Hmm, good question.
It could be a separate node again.
It could be a property of game - Ah, hum.
- because it's an average it probably makes sense to,
I mean, I think I would put, my gut feeling tells me,
put it as a property into game.
- Yeah. I think that's quite,
I think that's quite a reasonable thing to do.
So I would probably for now put Rating onto Game.
So let's do that.
So let's do properties. That's gonna be Rating.
And then we've got what other questions?
We've got, yeah we've got names, give the names.
We've got complexity. Okay.
So you said the complexity would be a value.
So that's an interesting one. - Yep.
- Cause now I'm starting to, well let me think
about how we're going to do this.
We'll come back to complexity in a second. So.
- We have a... (microphone echoing)
We need to add a people node or community node
or something by,
because we want to have the owners
or how it will be? How do we want to do this?
- So, how do you mean by owners?
- So we have, right? We have the,
we have sort of, so we have the users or the community
of Board Game Geek and they have the,
this is these wanters, traders, wishers, and owners.
- Oh, we not gonna add that for now.
- Oh, all right. - I think we'll just stick
to the data points that we've got
for the questions to answer today.
I think that would make sense. - Okay, that makes sense, yep.
So we've got two things we need to put in
to finish that off.
So one is the complexity,
so the weighting we need to put in,
and the other thing we need to put in is the minutes,
the time, so that was a question that fountain_hook asked.
So if we have a quick look,
we have like a Min Playing Time and a Max Playing Time.
So I, cause let's do a bit of a,
bit of a cop out here, is you've got, we said Minimum Time.
So we just put Minimum Time in for now
and then we'll worry about the other one later.
But Maximum Time would be good one for the future,
if you want to have a quick game.
But where did we put that in?
So I would be tempted to do a similar thing
for the Min Time too.
- Yeah, totally.
- So the only thing there is maybe we do time buckets.
So if we have a quick peek,
I'm just going to quickly do, I'm going to do a check query.
So bear with me. (Alex laughing)
- So let me do
"return distinct row.min",
We just put Min Time. What have we got?
- It's Playing Time, Min Play Time. Yep.
There's even a Playing Time,
which is, I guess the average, I don't know.
But yeah.
- Okay. So what we've got...
We've got Min Playing Time of zero.
That's a helpful value. (Alex laughing)
- That's a quick one.
- Oh, okay. I think we've got some naughty information.
Oh, oo, ooo gosh. Oh, look at that.
We've got some crazy values in here, haven't we?
- Yeah, that sounds like.
- We've got a 100, I guess that's not too bad.
We've got 124 different values.
And I think this, I think some of these might be...
Entry poo. - Yeah. (laughs)
- So let me do this.
I'm going to do 10 "distinct tointeger" time.
And then we just put them in order.
Ah, sorry. I'm pressing random buttons and breaking things.
Do bear with me.
Just a quick peek. So we have got, da, da, da, da, dah.
All right, so we've got nodes to 10, 12, 15. Oh my goodness.
You've got some quite granular numbers here
and then it pops up.
So.
- Maybe? Should? Do we want to try Playing Time?
There's another,
- Oh, is there a playing time in there?
- There's a Playing Time as well. Yeah.
Maybe that is...
- A bit like that? All right. - Yep.
I don't know if that changes much.
- 135. - Does not, no. Okay.
- I want to know what game is this?
(Alex laughing)
- That you can play for weeks.
- That's a big, big Dungeons and Dragons campaign. (laughs)
- Oh yeah. So that's, that's quite good.
So, you know what, I'm gonna cheat because,
cause we've got lots of nodes in here anyway.
So I'm going to do a bit of a cheat and I'm going to say
that we've got a minimum criteria of 10 minutes.
So game's got to be at least 10 minutes playable
and I'm gonna do a max criteria of five hours.
So I think I'm being extraordinarily generous.
So let's say we're going to do between 10 minutes
and 300 minutes and then everything else, I mean,
I, I'm sorry, I'm not entirely convinced.
And that might be a convenient way for us to,
for us to basically get our 50, 50,000 nodes for the games.
- True. Yeah.
- We've got a couple of questions that have come in,
Logarithmic buckets. Yeah, that's an option.
To be honest with you, 135 nodes is tiny
and bearing in mind that we're going to have,
if we were doing the Min/Max Time,
it'd basically be two relationships.
So 135 is a tiny number of nodes.
So I wouldn't worry so much about the buckets.
And again, this is like a really interesting conversation
about how we do this.
So there's going to be more than one way to model this.
So I'm cognizant of fact that we have running at time.
So let's just quickly do this so we can get some data in
and get some querying going.
So I think for the interest of time,
so this isn't the perfect model,
that we could probably spend a lot of time working
with this so I'm gonna stick,
I'm gonna do the horrible thing.
I'm gonna stick the time onto the node for now
as a property and then we can play around afterwards.
So just for the interest of,
so we can get some data in and start querying,
and then it might be good fun
to have a play with refactoring it and changing that.
So let's do, it was the average time was the name?
No, Playing Time. - Playing Time, yep.
- Playing Time. So let's put it in there for now.
It's not great but for the purposes
of let's just get this going.
So you've got ID, Name, Rating, and Playing Time on Game.
And then we've got Min and Max Player
going to Player Counts.
So I think we've got, and we've got weight.
- Weight, yeah.
- So the last thing is weight
so I'm gonna do a massive cop-out here as well.
I'm gonna put weight as a property on there as well.
- Yeah.
- So we've still got a graph elements on there
and then like that, okay.
So this is our data model. It's not perfect,
but let's just get going so we can get some data in.
So, right. Let's load in some data.
So I'm going to jump and reuse this.
So let's do... (tongue clicking)
I, we're going to limit it to the first 50,000.
So I'm going to assume that
I'm gonna do create.
I'm gonna in great hope and faith,
I'm going to hope that each line
of data is unique in that, in that CSV.
So let's hit create game node
and add to properties Name, it's gonna be "row.name".
We've got Weight is "row.", the average weight wasn't it?
- It's "average_weight", yeah.
- We had Rating which is "row.",
oh, "row.average_rating" - which is... Exactly.
- And we, what else did we put in here?
We put Playing Time, didn't we?
- Playing Time, yep. - So "playingTime" is
"row.playing" - Playing Time
- Is it like that? Underscore. - No, it's a small t...
No, just one word but no T. - "playingtime", okay.
Perfect, "playingtime", all right.
So we've got our 1, 2, 3, 4 properties and we typically do.
Oh, ID. I forgot to put ID on there.
Is it just called ID or is it? - It is just called ID, yep.
All right, so let's do ID is "row.id".
Okay, cool.
I'm gonna create on, create our game node.
And then what we're gonna do
is gonna merge our number of players.
So we're going to do...
Was there an average, what was the plan?
Was there, is there like a Min/Max?
There isn't an average playing, play is there?
- No, there's a Min and Max Players.
- Okay. So let's do merge.
We said No Players, didn't we?
Call it Player Count. - It's Player Count.
So P, "PlayerCount"
and it's gonna be value,
is going to be "row." Was it Min Players?
- Min Players, yep. And gonna do Max Players, I guess.
- And we're gonna do another one. Shape, ah same node.
So we're just doing that
in case they've got different values.
- It's not, it's not underscore again.
It's just one word.
- Oh, is it "min_players" with underscore?
No, it's just no underscore.
- It's like that? - Like this, yes.
- Perfect. Thank you.
Value gonna be "row.maxplayers",
and then we're going to create
with all of this so "WITH g."
"pmin",
"pmax",
"pmin", "pmax"
We're gonna do "CREATE (g)"
has Min Players
that could be "pmin"
and "CREATE (g)"
has Max Players
"pmax"
And I just need to put a limiter in here
because you've got limit of number of rows.
So I'm going to do "with row limit"
- Do we want to play, limit by Playing Time?
- Oh, well, let's get some data in there.
We can play with the playing. Actually, no.
Let's do, no, no, let's limit Playing Time.
So "row limit",
how about this,
"where tointeger
(row.playingtime)"
is greater than nine
and to integer is less than 501.
So we are, oh, 301. On multiply.
Okay. So we're saying game that's over nine minutes long
and less than three hours, four, five hours in minutes.
Playing time to do that.
And hopefully that should be less than 50,000 nodes.
If not, we'll soon find out. (Alex laughing)
So just quickly do some integer.
So this we're just going to cast this
cause these are all gonna be treated as strings.
So I just want to turn them to integers,
"tointeger" like that.
And same deal here,
"tointeger" that one.
And what else do you have any other sneaky?
Oh, this what we want to convert to a float.
Is these ones here to float
cause these are all gonna be strings
because we're pulling them in from CSV.
So we need to let it know
that actually what needs is float.
So it's going to be "tofloat"s, the average rating,
and this is going to be "tointeger".
All right. Have we missed any?
Have we missed any? I think we're all good here.
Da, da, da, dah. Good. Right.
Hopefully, I, Ooh, sorry. I'm having fun with the scrolly.
All right? Let's see what happens.
Little bit of a mess. What did I miss?
Ah, line three. What did I do?
We did Game.
Oh, I ended up on a separate line.
I don't know what happened there.
Oh, I know what I did.
I put the integer on the wrong thing. Oopsy, daisy.
"tointeger"
and "row.id" that can stay as a string.
I don't mind. I'm not too worried about that.
All right. Okay. - Fine, yep.
- Did I miss any other bugs? Oh no, we're good.
We're going to, hopefully that's less than 50,000 nodes.
Otherwise we'll have to, ah, trim it down some more.
- (laughs) Yep. (gulps) Hmm.
- Oh, no. - Oh, no.
- Oh, no. We were whole or, okay, I'm gonna be brutal.
It's now three hours.
- (laughs) What are you on? Yep.
- All right. Let's see.
Will this? Will this go?
- No, it's still no.
- No. All right, you know what?
90 minutes.
I'm a cruel, you get the idea, I'm a cruel task master.
(both hosts laughing)
- It's still too long. - No! This is...
All right, an hour.
We should find out pretty quickly whether
or not we're hitting the limit, you know?
- Yeah.
That's all we can ask for.
- Yah! We're in, yep. - Are we in? Are we in?
Oh, look at that, on the nose.
So let's have a look at how many nodes we've got each thing.
So the "match (n)", "return labels(n)",
and count star.
This is gonna tell us how many errors we've got in each one,
so we have got 46,000 game nodes
and player, and 73 different values for Player Count.
So that's surprising.
Well, I, I'm intrigued now.
Did we find one? Hang on.
Where's the, ah, it's not showing it here.
That's fine.
Let's do "MATCH PlayerCount",
return star.
Value 2, 5, 1, 3, 0,
16, 40, flipping heck.
Okay. That's interesting.
We might, we may have another episode.
We're just having a look at these games with many people
and those that take forever.
But anyway, okay. I digress.
Let's do the first question.
So our first thing we wanted to do,
the top rated games and what are they called?
So let's do that.
So that's do "MATCH (g)" and this is a bit of a cop out
because we did put rating on this.
There's lots of different ways we can do this,
So "MATCH (g:Game)"
I'm going to do,
"return g.name,
g.rating ORDER BY g.rating LIMIT 10"
Let's see the top 10.
There we go. Ooh.
What happened there? - Descending,
you need to. Yep. - Descend?
- All games of lower.
We shouldn't have bothered writing in any
of the games that got a rating of zero
because nobody cares.
- (laughs) No. - Oh, look at that.
Loads, loads of games, loads of games rate full marks of 10.
So I suspect, so the other thing we probably,
if we were coming back to this to filter it,
is maybe we should do a minimum number
of people who own this game as well.
What we probably find here is, if we had to look,
you've probably got lots of people who've got a, you know,
maybe like five people own this game.
So basically the person who created it
and all of their friends and they've all given it 10.
Fantastic, right?
- That's like, that's what it sounds like
because these games are, I mean,
I'm not saying I know all the games,
but I've never heard of any of them. (laughs)
- Yeah, I've no heard of any of these people.
So I suspect there might be a little bit
of bias going on here.
But anyway, you get the idea.
So, Bonjour la France, so if I'm not learning,
I'm not learning French for that one.
- Nope. (laughs)
- Excellent. All right, so you've done that one.
So the next question is what game?
So we did the top rated games.
What games are the most popular?
Oh, we didn't. Oh, we needed to add number of owners.
Sorry. You've mentioned that and I completely forgot.
So we'll cut, we'll... - Do this next time. Yep, yep.
- We'll do it next time.
So next question we've got is
games for X players with complexity over Y.
Right. Let's do that.
So again, we're still staying on the, oh no,
we're going to be using the thing as well.
So let's do, let's give ourselves some value.
So let's do "with"
what do you want to do as complexity rating?
Four? - Yeah.
- And let's do,
now how many people do you wanna play with?
- Three. - Three?
Just three players. You mean Min Player and Max Player?
- Ah, three? Yeah, well, I mean, we could do three to five.
- Okay. Three is Min, five as Max.
And let's write our query.
So let's do "MATCH"
Ah, do, do, do, doo.
Let's do "MATCH",
brain start working, "(g:Game)"
Oh, you know what?
We can write a really questionable query here.
So, because we've got this, we've got Min and Max Player.
So we can be a little bit of a cheat here.
So I'm just trying to think. Can we do it like this?
So "(pc:PlayerCount)", can we do something like this?
Where "g.weight"
is equal to or greater than complexity.
And...
Can I do PC in? Yeah, I think I can do this.
It might not work. I've living life on the edge here.
(Alex laughing)
"pc.value in",
It might be this. I might be this. Will this work?
- We'll find out. (laughs)
- Let's find out. Let's see what happened if we do this.
Right. Well, what did I miss? Right?
What does it not like?
PC the weight is?
There is, why is this arrow here?
Is greater than or equal to. Oh, okay.
That's what happened, right.
Why it's gonna work, it's just gonna work.
- Oh.
- Oh, okay. Yeah, it does. Okay, cool.
So let's talk about what's going on here
and let's put in the complexity.
- Ah, there's a good point from Bokjo,
It will not include four players.
- Ah, it will. I'll explain why in a second.
Oh no, no. You're right. No, you're right.
You're right, Bokjo.
And I'll come back to that in a second.
Ah, good point. So let's do,
"as name g.weight
as complexity",
"as players",
"player range"?
And actually a good point made by Bokjo fire
which is we'd put them in a do.
I'm gonna have to remind myself how to do this.
So it's gonna do range.
Is it this? "range(min, max)"?
I may have to Google the,
Hey, here we go.
Boom, well done. - (laughs) Yes.
- So, here we go. And let's order by complexity.
Let's do that. There we go. Right. Here we go.
Good spot, Bokjo. So here we go.
So that's that question. So we have got Min/Max Players
who wanna play and then we've got the thing.
So here we've got complexity.
So we've ordered it
from lowest complexity to highest complexity.
So they go "Lord of the Rings: The Card Game Nightmare Deck
Over Hill and Under Hill."
If you want a hard game, play that one.
(Alex laughing) - and what we've done here,
and I'll tell you about my little cheat that I've done is,
the little cheat that I've done is
that I have effectively said Min and Max
and because remember we've got the two relationships,
Min and Max Players relationships going into Player Count,
I can now ignore the Min having to specify Min or Max.
And I'm doing this in array.
So what I'm saying is if the, yeah, so this is,
this is giving me the array
of player like, number of players.
And then I'm just basically saying
as long as the PC value's in there,
the Min Value is gonna be in there
and the Max Value is gonna be in there.
Then that's going to filter our players.
So that's like a nice little key cheat.
I feel quite smoke with that. So Fountain_hook just asked,
"Can you add rated by at least 1000 player?"
- Yeah. We could, but we,
- We could, we need to add that data in.
- Exactly, we didn't do that data.
I think if we, if we could come back to this dataset
or as something similar. - Yeah.
- We will for sure have that
because like we discovered earlier,
I think that the Santa Claus game clearly is
not going to be the best game ever.
But because five people think it is,
it's on the top of the list. (laughs)
- Exactly. Yeah. So good point.
That's a very important, basic point.
We didn't put in here, but we should do it next time.
- Yeah. - So let's cut.
Let's let's come to Fountain_hook's question which was,
what games can I play with X friends
which require minimum number of minutes.
So we can actually just take this query
and do a bit of tweaking to it.
So let's do "g.", what did we say this was called?
This was, ah, Playing Time of minutes.
- Playing Time, yep.
- Right. Playing time is running too.
And here we're going to change this to 30 minutes.
So I'm just gonna cheat and just go,
just replace everything.
And you've got number of players.
So I don't know if you had a Min or Max number
of players you wanted, Fountain_hook,
but you get the idea so we can do "ORDER BY playingtime"
Let's stick with, I think...
Oh, you wanted two players, didn't you?
So I'm gonna go with two.
- We can do two to four.
- And let's do. Oh, I'm gonna do this two and two.
I can just keep reusing this, so.
We're gonna really ruin this slightly,
but for the purposes of just reusing
what we've already got here.
- I think you might have to write the T in playing time
with a small t.
- Oh. What did I do wrong here?
- It's "playingTime", it has a capital T if that matters.
I think that matters.
- Yeah, it does. The properties are case sensitive.
So what did I not do? Did I put it in as a...?
- The play, "playingTime" is with not with a capital T.
- Oh, is that how I put it in the graph?
I thought I put it in as a, hang on. Let me check.
- I think you did. I think you didn't.
(keyboard clicking)
- How did I do this? No, "playingTime".
- Oh, you did. Okay. Sorry. Well done.
- So what did I not do right here?
What is it not happy about?
What am I missing?
Order by, well, it's not, oh, it's just this.
Oh, no, it's this here.
I need to do this. That's why it's complaining.
Ooh.
- Ah, yep.
- Here we go.
7 Wonders, that should be 7 Wonders Jewel, surely,
which I've been playing a lot of.
I've been playing so much - 7 Wonders Jewel.
(Alex laughing)
Although I usually knock it out. Oh, and Splendor.
I like that. - Yeah.
There are good games. - Oh yeah.
- Yeah. (indistinct overtalking)
- So Fountain you've asked a good question there.
I'm intrigued that this one's got, oh look.
We've probably got more than one Dominion.
So we've got some data in there.
So we've got a question here about bad news,
PC value doesn't always work.
Think about Min one player and Max a 100.
This game would not be captured by,
this game would not be captured by range for your five
but should work.
Oh, let's have a look.
- Hmm. Interesting point.
- Good point. Good point.
So that's a great point, Bokjo.
Let's have a think, I obviously, I need to rethink
what this would look like.
So maybe I need to not be lazy
because what we could.. (Alex laughing)
- Actually, no, that's a really good point.
So I think we've come to time.
So I'm going to copy and paste that
and have a think about how we do that.
So I was being lazy and obviously laziness was
not in my favor here.
So let me have it, let me have a think about,
how would be that.
And then when we write up the GitHub repository,
so this is where all of this stuff lives.
So over the next couple of days,
I will do a writeup
onto the repost.
You can come along and follow up week two.
So let me have a little think about it
and I'll do any query corrections I need to do.
I will do in there.
Oh man. But that's, you know, that's,
that's knocked the wind out of my sails.
I've not got that one working, but that's all good.
We'll get sorted. So cool.
So that's that. So we try to keep these to an hour.
So we are at time.
So yeah. Over to you, Alex, any closing notes?
- I think that was fun. I think that's,
that's an interesting dataset.
I think there is more to explore.
So like you said, maybe we come back to this set
or to a similar one and dig in some more.
And do, like we discovered with the average players
or average raters, I guess it makes a difference
when you think of it, then these outliers are just
not in there anymore or not as prominent.
So it makes make sense.
But I clearly, I think it, it showed again in,
in 50, 60 minutes you are, if you have a CSV file,
you are from zero to data and first queries
and that's possible and in can be done easily.
So I think we showed again that this can be done
and no matter the dataset really.
So I think it was great.
I'm looking forward to seeing you all next time.
I'm hoping you send in your datasets.
Really, let us know either Discord or Twitter or
- Well, Fountain_hook suggested chess
and we've got the World Cup going on.
- Exactly. Exactly.
- So, let's have a little poke around and see
if we can find an openly available dataset for that.
- Exactly.
And yeah. Don't. Check out Aura yourself.
Give it a try, start your free instance.
It's free, so no cost involved
and give it a try and let us know what you think.
- Yeah, no, absolutely.
So same time next week. See you later.
If you've got any ideas for the datasets, let us know.
So either ping us on Discord, Tweet us,
if you're about during the session,
there's suggestions like Fountain_hook did about chess.
I'm going to go and have a look,
see if we can find some datasets.
Thank you very much for joining us and see you next week.
- See you next week. Thank you very much, guys.
Take care. Bye, bye.