- Hello? - Hi.
- Hi, Michael.
Good afternoon to you.
- Good afternoon to you as well.
- How you doing?
- It could be better,
but seeing you and everyone online makes me happy.
(laughs)
- Very good, very good.
- Is the audio okay today? - Welcome everybody.
- Before you get into it. - Pardon.
- Is the audio okay today?
because I just (indistinct)
- No, the audio is good.
Yeah, yeah the audio.
- Cool, all right, super.
- So far, so good.
Yeah, welcome everybody.
Thanks for joining.
Let us know in chat where you're watching this from
and maybe even when you're watching this from.
So what's the time for you for?
For us here it's, yeah, late afternoon already.
So looking forward to chatting with you during the session.
We will do...
Yeah, we will dive into a few things today.
I'm looking forward to that.
So I think that's gonna be a good session today.
Let's go right in I guess
And I'll share my screen quickly
and go over what's what's to come today.
So yeah, like I said,
discovering Neo4j AuraDB Free is his topic.
The plan looks as follows.
We're gonna do a quick recap of what's Neo4j AuraDB Free,
and you're gonna pick a data set.
If you have a dataset.
I think you didn't ask this for a while now.
So yeah, exactly, we're gonna put up with that again.
So if you have a data you think is interesting,
you'd like us to explore, let us know.
Tweet us, write us an email, poster,
a post on the community forums, right on discord anywhere,
under this YouTube video.
I mean, you know how to find us, right?
Then once we have picked the dataset,
we think a little bit about the questions we might ask.
So we've explored a little bit,
we kind of find out what makes sense.
What can be asked in this kind of like
the scenario we're gonna go for.
Then we determined that data model
because that kind of like goes hand in hand a little bit.
So sometimes you plan your audio questions
and you define what kind of data model you go for.
And then you develop further and then you iterate and so on.
Then load and query time, obviously getting the data in.
And then after we did that, after we loaded the data,
we're gonna explore it and see what kind of queries
you will ask with it.
What is Neo4j AuraDB Free?
So just quickly, it's the free version of Neo4j AuraDB
which is a graph database as a service in the cloud.
You can basically go on the page.
I'm going to link it in a second chat.
Go on that register login with your details
and you're good.
You get a database that's for you, free for you as well.
It's limited a little bit to 50,000 nodes
and 175,000 relationships.
But other than that, it's yours forever basically.
You have access to a Neo4j browser
which is the development tool we have.
And you also get Neo4j Bloom,
which is our visualization service.
So with these two tools at your fingertips,
you have all the basic needs you would need
to start your own project in the graph world.
And with AuraDB Free,
you can always upgrade to once to 50,000 nodes,
and 175,000 relationships are not enough anymore.
You can always upgrade it in next year
which is not gonna for you anymore but still.
The link will follow in chat in a second,
but let's get going today.
So the topic today is gonna be pandora papers.
So,
we have explored that a little bit.
So I think you might have,
probably you have seen this before.
So this is the Pandora papers login page
where you can see all the information, the ICIJ posts,
and collects these altogether.
So you might have heard of paradise papers or Panama papers
or some other leaks.
So the ICIJ is really big with these on the Pandora papers
was the recent one.
Michael, do you remember?
When was it, I think a month ago or something?
- So the official publication of the Pandora Papers
was October 3rd.
- October, so two months ago.
- And last week, actually the data publication happened.
So that's why we're talking about this today as well.
- Exactly.
- Because the data has gotten old or a part of the data.
So I looked at the data, of course not all of it anyway,
but it was only like a small portion of the Pandora Papers
data as well that they published.
- Yeah, so they do publish this.
So I'll also post a link in chat to this
so you can find out yourself.
So they have gathered all information.
There's a little YouTube video on it
where they explain what it is all about,
and then they have some other articles.
It's going on, but you can see really, they post constantly.
And yeah, this is the post that Michael refers to.
So ICIJ released new Pandora Papers data
from two offshore service providers.
So this is that.
So I guess really big and search it to yourself,
go in and explore it.
But what we gonna do is we follow
this guy that Michael already wrote last week, I guess,
on the release of the Pandora Papers dataset
where Michael already went in
and checked out a data model and so forth.
But we are going to do this now together.
So we'll dive into that, I guess.
So let me quickly get those links out for you.
This is the blog posts, maybe I'll start with that.
I guess this is the interesting-
(indistinct)
- Yup.
- Yup.
Posted that in chat.
Yeah.
- Cool, sounds good.
Thank you, Alex, for the introduction.
Really good.
So let me share my screen just to the write one.
Okay.
So what I originally wanted to do is to show you
the Pandora Papers in Neo4j Aura.
Unfortunately, I started a little bit too late
to load it on file.
So it's still loading so we can check back in later.
But until then, let's talk a little bit about
data model and the data itself, and they can find it.
And then if it's not done by then,
we can use Neo4j desktop and otherwise we go into tomorrow.
Okay, and I also have another idea
that I thought would work,
but let's look at this as well.
So Alex already pointed out the federal purpose page.
And if you want to look more into detail,
there's this offshore leaks database data, thank you
which gets us to this page.
And there you can search for things
in the different databases, right?
So for instance,
they usually publish these kind of power players.
So like stories or visualizations of things
about publicly known people.
So for instance, if you have like Jordan's King in here,
Kenya's president, Lebanon,
and then there're also the Aliyevs from Azerbaijan,
people from Putin's circle several of them actually,
as you can see here.
People from Hong Kong and so on, right.
So different people.
And so what we could do is basically (indistinct)
one of these people
like the former Hong Kong chief executive.
And then you can create about, the kind of reporting,
the actual journalistic reporting offered
but you can also see it as a graph, basically.
That's what you see here,
the person and the companies that have been working with.
So that's something that we can then look at
and search for this, right?
So if you take this person,
and unfortunately we can't copy.
Can we copy and paste link text?
No, so we probably need to remember that, Leung Chan-ying.
So let's see if I get to try to do this.
So here Leung Chan-ying
I hope I didn't misspell this.
Chan-ying, looks okay.
Okay, and if you want to search this hopefully let's see.
So there's a lots of matches and all person
might be somebody in here.
So I'm not sure if you can see I want to actually match
the exact spelling.
Ah, there we are.
So there's offshore leaks in Paradise Papers actually.
Interesting.
So if you look at this data, then you see here as such.
What you can also do in the search
for the offshore leaks database for the public database is
you can please select one of two datasets and then
it should only show you the things from that data set.
So you see, there are 17000 entities,
meaning share companies, 26,000 officers.
I thought when I looked at the data,
it's actually only 16, 17000 unique names.
So there are lots of duplicates where they didn't merge
the data together for data preservation reasons.
So basically they don't want to medal with the data.
So they're not accused of like merging things together.
And, you know, John Smith here and John Smith there,
you don't actually know if just a name is mentioned,
if attention is in person.
So you have some relationships between nodes that has
sameness name as well a similar person
as the same company as or something like that.
But they don't really mash them together
because you can't really prove that
one John Smith mentioned in one text
is the same John Smith as mentioned in the other text.
I mean, if you look at your context and you often see this
but then you need to do more journalistic research
on the idea and look into the show companies
and then really created by whom and so on
and 16,000 addresses.
So, but unfortunately,
I thought you could also search in this subset only.
Okay.
But for that, let's see, is it still loading?
So let me just grab quickly my local database
or let me do something else first.
I want to show you Alex shared the blog post.
I think it's in developer blog, right?
- Yeah.
- Blog, there we go.
So in the block posts,
you look a little bit at the data model data India,
and how you can get this information.
So basically what we have here is on GitHub
as in public repository
which is very similar to our other example,
data repository that we've looked at in the past
commendations and so on, but browser guides, raw data like
and browser guide and he also the data in here.
So when you basically get any of these dump files,
then you can import them into Aura.
You need an Aura pro instance
because there's a large sort of fit into free
or in desktop.
And until my Aura instance here is done,
we can create your desktop version of it
and then we can start varying
and playing around with the data
and look at this a little bit.
The data model is pretty straightforward.
So you see it here.
So we could also model it in arrows,
but it's pretty straightforward.
So you have two entities for two of the shell companies.
The officer's, which can be a director of a shell company,
or a shareholder, a beneficiary of a shell company,
or someone who's somehow involved with the shell company.
And then we have intermediaries,
which are the banks and law firms
and other institutions that offer services
to create and manage these kinds of share companies, right?
So if ULX want to say, okay,
I want to put my earnings from all the live streams
onto a shell company then you go to a German bank
like Deutsche Bank or somewhere else in Munich.
Let's say I have all these millions of dollars here
from my life students,
I want to put them into a shell company.
Then you go there and they say,
"Oh yeah, you want your shell company, its a shell also."
Pretty sure (indistinct)
- You shouldn't tell my secrets.
(laughs)
- So actually, it would be interesting
if you find some of the last three months in the datasets
and it could be actually an interesting one
because there was this Twitch league
where they tell couples (indistinct)
So kind of interesting to see
if people can actually be found there.
Anyway, so you go to one of these intermediary,
or it could be also a law firm
and they create a shell company for you.
But the real owner of the shell company
is usually not visible.
It's kind of employees of the globe
or random people that kind of sign,
I'm a director of this shell company.
But the real person or the real organization
that owns the shell company is never published anywhere
in any company registry.
They have it in their internal documents of course
and databases.
And this is exactly what has been kind of published
with these leaks.
It's basically these internal documents, right?
Well actually the people that are clearly behind
those shell companies, those are actually become invisible.
Right?
And that's kind of the interesting and important thing here.
Especially if those shell companies
then kind of move from one owner to the other
and they basically trade shell companies
like you would trade stocks, or so all right?
So you put a million dollars into a shell company,
and then you basically hand over the shell company
to someone else.
So you have to put some million dollars
at their disposal basically as such, right?
And then you can, whatever dirty things you want to do
from buying arms to truck purchases
to crazy things like buying your yacht or something else.
Or buying an island or something, right?
So there's a lot of money moving behind the scenes
so that you can't track and trace.
So many state governments and jurisdictions
try to find money that has been taken by criminals
or corruption.
But if it's once in a shell company,
it's really hard to track
and that's why these leaks are also really important
for law enforcement and tech authorities
because they cannot figure out who
put the money where
and other ways of getting back those things
through the crime criminal justice system, right?
So that's basically the data model as such
and that's been pretty stable over the years.
So all of us use this data model
since the early days of swift leagues and Panama Papers
and that's all.
So in this current dataset, there are not so many entities.
So let me see if you are good here now.
So I'll just show you that I took this database
and imported it into Neo4j.
(indistinct) so I took to dump file as you can see here,
I can just pull the browser up here as well.
So I talked to dump file, and then if you add,
so you can say add local file,
and then you can just put dump file into a project,
any Neo4j desktop and thus create new DBMS from dump file,
import dump into an existing DBMS.
You can turn this dump file into a database
which I've done already here.
And now we can start this database
and it takes a few seconds to start.
While it's doing that, you can look at log files
and other things as well, right?
And so that's how you can use it on your own machine.
If you have Neo4j desktop installed or if you're On Aura.
If you're on Aura, let me just show you.
If you are an Aura and you have a database,
then you can basically upload in the input database,
select a dump file and upload it into to your instance.
Because Aura free, it's limited in graph size.
You need to have an Aura pro instance
for this dump file as such.
Okay, so let's see if our desktop database has started.
Yes, it started.
So it's now active and now we can basically open
Neo4j browser and if this one, let me clear this out.
And then we can start investigating to stay down, right?
So this is the whole offshore leaks database.
So it's not just Pandora paper.
So it's almost 2 million nodes and 3.2 million relationships
in here, so it's pretty big.
And now we can look at, okay,
how many nodes of the different types of in here.
So we can just match all the nodes and say,
return head labels of n
as type, count star
as count order by count.
And then it runs and we see it's $800 in shell companies,
$745 in officers, $290 in addresses and so on.
And if you want to limit us to one of the data sets,
then we can just say,
where n.sourceID starts with Pandora Papers.
And then it runs this and we see.
Basically what I showed you before,
it's $26 in officers, $70 in entry entities
and some addresses.
But if you look at your officer's actually,
let's do this here.
We can, let me just do this up here.
So we can just look at your offices.
So that should give us only the 2,600.
But what we can also do is we can count distinct n.name
as uniques and then you see it's only $17 in unique names
in that data set.
That's what I mentioned before, right?
So it's more entities, but with a lot of the same names.
So I actually saw this when I was looking for
one particular person and there were like 17 people
of that name in that database.
- Sorry for interrupting,
but I'm getting some scratching noises.
Which microphone are you using?
- I should be using the one-
- Use of the one on your mic because it sounds like
sometimes you would touch like a.
- Actually, yeah.
I have the air pods selected here.
But it's in the browser setting
that it's using actually a mic.
Okay, so I'll keep my hand from that side.
- Or you just switch it off or you can always switch.
- It's tough, no it doesn't allow me to switch.
So if I want to switch it in a browser,
it doesn't allow it.
Let me see in settings. - It doesn't allow okay.
- It's better now or different?
Let's see how it goes, okay?
- Yeah.
- Okay, cool.
But if you remember that we were actually looking
for a particular officer in the database
and n.name.
And it was Leung Chun-ying
just like this.
There was on Leung Chun-ying
So and doesn't find it.
Probably, either it's some spelling
or it's not in the Pandora Papers part of the data.
So let's try this.
If you only look for this one person it's not in there.
Okay, but what we can do actually in here is we can do
a full-text search on the data.fulltext.querrynodes.
I'm not sure why it's not completing it.
So I think the index is called search
and then we can just search for the name.
Search.
Yield node.
Node, score.
Where node officer
return node limit 10.
So you see that now we have different spellings
of uppercase.
Here the spaces and dashers,
different spaces and dashes here.
So you see that actually in terms of the spelling,
it's very different, right?
So we can now say, "Okay, you won't have at least
Chun-yin as one word."
Yeah, so I've indicated like this, right?
And you see that there are lots of entries
for the same person, right?
And node.sourceID with Pandora Papers.
So I was not really sure if this person was actually
in the published data set, yeah.
So, but it's the wrong people.
Or at least the names only partially match
what you're looking for.
So it seems he was not in a published dataset.
But this shows you already how you can do full text search
on the data, which is quite nice.
So you can do this.
There are also different indexes for this.
So for instance-
- Is it where we're already using the new text index
from four-four?
- So we have the new text index her on this dataset
but we also have full-text indexes as well.
Because the text index, as you can see here,
we have some text index here on this officer name
and so-and-so, which is special better
for like contains variants.
- Okay.
- But it doesn't allow for a case insensitive
and partial matches and like fancy matching and so on.
But that's why we also created like full-text indexes
for everything.
- I see.
- But also full text indexes per individual entity as well.
So we also have...
For instance, I can also do an full-text search
on officer only and then we don't need to check
for the type here.
Then it only has officers in this (indistinct).
And so they have more.
But it's unfortunately not our candidates, right?
So unfortunately he's not in there.
So what you can do is you can look at
one of the other poll players
and see what else we can find in there.
I think let's see, what do we want to look at
Panama presidents.
(indistinct)
There are so many.
I think I have 56 or 64 in our poll players.
So it's a lot of people.
So for instance, if you try to look for the person here,
then we can see if you find that person in our data.
Let's see.
So these are people from that dataset.
And if I do this in double quotes,
it should actually find it and then it come on.
Okay, so then I guess...
So one thing that you can do,
family of the Azerbaijanian president is always in there.
Of course you have so many shell companies
and things like that.
So there are tons of Pandora Papers,
things until you see even the same name
as relationship as well as such, right?
So there's these things as well.
And so you can see what they're doing
and then you can find their involvements.
So if you want to look at this Aliyev family,
we can just say, "We want to find officers
who have an involvement with an entity to where
o.name, come on, contains.
So this is now using the new text index and o.sourceID
starts with Pandora return away from here.
So here now we see already from the Pandora Papers,
the Aliyev family, what they're investing in
and also kind of what is the overlap between those, right?
But you see that basically all the different shell companies
the same person has a different name here, right?
So it's basically only tentatively investing with the other
tentatively this one person is involved
with all these shell companies, right?
But that's an instance for the name for all of these here
in our search.
Right, so, and then you can start investigating this.
It's also part of this publication
it's an as a browser guide.
So if I do a play offshore leaks, I think it's,
ICIJ-offshore leaks,
then I get a browser guide for the whole database basically.
So it explains kind of the data model,
allow some queries and so on.
But then at the end you have, for each of those data sets,
you have individual product guides as such.
So this one is Pandora Papers
with the video that you've already seen
and then you can start exploring this.
And for instance, he has experience short and shortest path
between two people that are in the Pandora Papers.
So just to show you how you could kind of follow the money
or something like that, right?
So they say, okay, I have two suspects in some way
and I want to see how are these two connected through which
share companies are they connected
through which intermediaries are they connected?
And you see that for instance here,
all these shell companies share the same address.
That's only for the British Virgin islands led.
So I mean,
that might be a no incidence or coordination,
but you can also imagine adults
where they achieve jointly invested into shell companies.
And Anthony said that that's such, right.
So if you want to exclude this,
then you would move to your registered address here
and then you would have to find other ways
of connecting with people.
So in this case, these two people are not connected anymore.
If you've moved your dress from that picture.
Okay.
And then you can do a question as well.
So you can say, for instance, I want to see.
So this is one of the published intermediaries
from the Pandora Papers and we want to see
how many shell companies in the different countries
did they actually create.
And so if I run this,
then I see, oops.
Why?
Oh because it's I think e.country count.
Country,
That's good.
Let me see what's wrong here.
So we can just return to entity.
Oh, they don't actually have country codes in here.
It's unfortunate.
So this seems to be like a difference
to the other data models that we used to have before
in in the official league.
So they don't have country codes on the entities.
What you could do is you could look at the addresses
for these entities and see if the, oops,
if the addresses have country codes,
and then use those sentence.
They don't have addresses.
That's pretty sad.
Sort of seems to be weird.
Why don't these entities not have addresses.
But you've also seen that in the beginning.
So they will not have as many addresses in the data as well.
So let's pick another intermediary.
So if I look at the offshore leaks, Pandora Papers again,
they actually talk about some of the intermediaries
in
Cordero Panamanian law firm.
So we kind of look for those different entities
Please let's try this.
Cordero, no.
Let's look at the full text and links
db.fulltext.querryNodes and then intermediary and Cordero.
We can possibly limit up to here, limit 10.
Okay, so it's spelled differently.
So it's Cordero with an upper case.
Aleman Cordero.
so, okay it needs to be in all caps.
Okay, Cordero
So
that's the disadvantage of this direct matches.
What was this?
By the way, if you want to,
you can also copy and paste directly from here.
But actually-
- Is that new or was that-
- That's new, that's a new feature in browser
that the property view has actually moved to the side
from the bottom and now you have a better overview
of all the properties.
You can copy them all in once up here
or you can copy them individually as well
as your coordinates.
- That is nice Indeed.
- So Cordero, not Condero but Cordero,
so I just misspelled it.
No, that's weird.
But it seems that the entities
don't have too many addresses here and it's interesting.
So perhaps the addresses are only four offices then as such.
- Maybe the Pandora Papers, yeah.
So it's probably only a partial.
Let's see if we get the officers and they have addresses
because I really want to see this by jurisdiction.
So, because it's always interesting to see.
So addresses don't seem to be so as much in here.
So as I said before,
this is also something where the volume of the data leak
can also be,
oh, this was also the wrong direction of the arrow.
I just realized the office that is involved in the company
and then the address is here.
Let's try this again.
I just pointed arrow in the wrong direction.
Come on.
So, we should actually switch to the graph.
Now it looks better, right?
So now we have two red ones for addresses.
The orange ones are officers in a group one audit companies.
And if you click on one of these addresses,
then you see that it has no countries and country codes.
So we need to go all the way through to the address
because the officer's also don't have
any country information.
That's all.
Oh no, they have actually country countries.
Here on the officer.
Okay, so we can use this,
don't need to go all the way to the addresses.
So we would say countries,
and say return, officer.countries, count star as frequency
order by frequency, descending limit 20 or something, right?
So we see kind of this law firm has everyone in Panama.
- Because it, yeah, makes sense.
It's based in Panama.
- It's Panamanian. - Yeah.
- But then you can also see either certain intermediaries
or law firms that have more than one country.
So that's actually something when we say,
okay, we just want to look at Pandora Papers and say
intermediary,
we just take each intermediary,
collect all the countries that they have distinct,
countries where our country is greater than one.
Return intermediary, countries.
- Care of the spelling of return.
- Order by, lets just say, size of countries.
Size of countries descending.
So we still get all in the median of Pandora Papers
with the number of countries that they have.
So you see Cordero this one actually, which is this one.
As if, already seen one from the beginning as if
I am corporate services and this one has,
as you can see a ton of different countries, right?
So I mean a different combinations of course, as well.
But it's a lot of different countries.
- Yeah, actually more than you know.
- We're actually just missing the country field
on the entity, if we can fix this in the guide as well.
So if you go all the way back to our original thing,
then we can actually say, this was just missing the officer.
And then we use ordered countries here,
countries
and this would give us better understanding
of how many countries does it to be there already
what's active in.
So actually these semi-colon separated things.
We can also sort out by saying, unwind, split, o.countries,
on semi-colon as country.
And then we can just say yes, this.
So it takes the string,
splits it by the semi-colon and then takes each of them
individually as one country.
So you see that UK jumped from 50 to 211 as such,
but we don't have any duplicate.
- Yeah.
(indistinct)
- So that's a nice one
that we should probably add to the guide,
but we'll take a note of that and forget about it.
Okay, and so basically you can export the guide.
You can connect it to the stories from the offshore leaks
and try this.
So you can also look at the visualization of the data,
the volume of data in here.
And then also things like find me certain officers.
So here, for instance, this Russian person who
showed up in one of the stories, and then you can see,
okay, this person showed up here and then you can expand
this person and then (indistinct).
And then you can do also like second degree and four degree.
So basically you can say, okay,
I have this person I'd want to see,
are there any second degree things
and this is second degree, because it basically goes
from this person to another person and back again.
So it's like one, two, three.
Or goes from officer to entity to another officer to back to
another entity, but you have such, okay,
what else do we have in reguard?
So we can also do the same for intermediaries
and then for entities.
So we can transcend say whose practice entity,
who are the officers behind this entity
and then we can see.
Okay.
This offshore company has a lot of people involved with it.
And then you can kind of start investigating these people
and see what else have you done?
Girls has to be investigated as well.
So for instance,
I could say, okay, police officers,
in which other entities have they also been involved, right?
And then you just say the two holders
and then you get like second degree.
But for those obviously, well, not obviously,
but for those, it's actually not been visible
that you have other entities in the state as such.
Okay, and then it points back to the officer.
The challenge here is that the published data
is really small.
And then so many of the stories that they published
is actually,
they are only partially in the data
and not fully in the data which is a little bit unfortunate
from that perspective.
- Okay, so it's more like an insight
from a shorter set,
but at the same time these other databases are available.
So Paradise and Panama Papers. - Exactly.
So you- - And Panamas,
exactly all of them.
Actually, that's a good point.
That's something that we can also see here where say,
find me all the sourceIDs, so kind of which investigations
and how much data for each investigation is in, yeah.
All right, so that's the other thing that you can do
where we see, okay.
If you look at all, all the information,
so there's $55 notes from Panama paper to
Paradise papers, actually offshore leaks, Bahamas leaks.
And then they also have a subset of like paradise papers
that will be.
And so you could even say, you split this by-
- You slit this basically by-
- By source, by intermediary - Country/law firm, yeah.
- Yeah, that's because they said cost the sourceID
points to the leak or the data set of documents
which set of documents basically as the sourceID.
So if documents from appleby are different documents
than those from near these one also, right?
And that's why it in the sourceID,
you have this whole source, basically.
And, but if you spill per space
and only take the first name,
then we can aggregate them into one as such.
Let's do this.
So you see, you Paradise papers have $867
then Panama and offshore leaves, Bahama, peeps, and Pandora
(indistinct)
- No.
- Only a small one.
But there's a larger data dump coming at a later point
this month.
So then more data will be made available as well.
The other thing that I wanted to quickly show you
is you can also download the CSV files for those
and what I actually wanted to do,
but I now realize something interesting.
So these are all the csv files from the offerings database.
So you see, they have 3.2 million relationships
as you've seen in the node and in the graph
and then addresses entities, intermediaries,
and officers, and some other things.
So what I find you can do is we can just substitute
to them by, so for instance, if you look at the addresses,
you see that there's also the sourceID in here.
And I thought, because in total, it's too large,
but it is a small dataset,
that Pandora Paper dataset could almost fit into Aura free.
Oh, I thought that we can just substitute by sourceID.
- Okay.
If I take node addresses and use xsv
which is really nice xsv tool, and re-ask, you do search.
So you can provide a regular expression here for this field
and then look at how much data it returns
Then you only get 16,000 rows out of 300,
which is really nice.
So I thought, okay, we can just students and input those.
So I just wrote in one line,
this one that takes all of the 60 files
and the sourceID Pandora
and puts it into a separate folder.
So if I do this, it almost worked.
So I was quite happy, but unfortunately,
the relationships only one relationship
only the other is too little.
And it looks as if the published relationships file
is actually missing the Pandora group.
So you need to build back to them and ask them
to update this.
- Okay.
- And so that's also xsv stats that can run on a
on a file which is pregnise.
And then you can say, it looks at the file,
and then you get good at like a statistics of it.
So you see what I like are the entries in here
or you can also do xsv, select sourceID
oops, relationships.
And then you can pipe just towards sort and unique -c
and you what?
Oh, cool.
And then we see just actually, no Pandora papers in here.
We did relationships.
So we need to go back and ask them
'cause he does the data missing.
Otherwise I would have kind of tried to import the data,
also supports USB
from the subset into offering as an option.
But that's something that I just saw
a minute before we started.
So I didn't have time to go into that.
- Okay, well maybe we get that at some other point in time
and then we can have a look at it.
- It's okay.
- But if that's missing that's yeah.
- Yeah, fantastic.
The other thing that the show is very quick
is that there's also these code examples here.
So you have for Java, JavaScript, Python, and so on,
decoding examples on how could connect Neo4j
and use that database as well.
So if I want to connect to my Aura instance,
then I can just pick one of those examples, for instance,
if I want to do a Python notebook,
there's a bunch of charts and investigations here.
Then I can just take this code and run this code
against my instance as such.
So for instance, if I take to this and just say,
PIP install, neo4j
and vi test.python
you paste this in here
and then we just change this to our local database
and all using neo4j
I don't know password secret test.
And then if I run this test script,
then turn into transmitted data from this query in here.
So find me the officer Ross Wilbur and
addresses intermediaries and other officers
that are connected to this person can help surveyor
and limit 20 then I get a discrete executed.
So that's a simple and quick to run something like this.
And we can also change this to one of our other carriers.
And then, and so all the aquatic examples are also in here
for the different languages.
So you want to put in or something with the GraphQL API
or Java app or whatever,
and you get all the code examples
and just supposedly as much as nice.
And then the other thing,
if you want to show this kind of data to someone
who has not so much development experience,
then something good I recommend is to use
gloom on top of the data.
Of course, that's really nice for someone
who has no current language experience
and just wants to explore this data interactively initially.
Then you can explore that.
So you can basically nicely to do the stuff
and then you can say, for instance
I want to have and intermediary Cordero, right?
Was it like this?
- I think it was Cordero.
- Cordero name.
Cordero.
- Something like that.
- Something like that.
Anyway, so what you can do is basically you can say,
I want to see an intermediary.
What you can do is actually, it's also the-
- It was Cordero.
It must have been Cordero.
- Papers.
All right, so you can just say intermediary with sourceID
Pandora Papers and then I want to see other entities
basically from that intermediary and then control.
It will do this query and I get all this data
nicely in my bloom and then I can be start investigating.
Yeah, so I can find some subset of data and say,
okay, I'm interested in these three and say,
dismiss all the other nodes
And then I get all the three left and then as they
expand or relationships here from those
and then you see already, oh,
these are the three arches related,
not just via the intermediary,
but also with other things as well.
So, and then you can say, okay, I want to find 20 cents.
I want to find the shortest path between these two officers
then you can do this and the shortest path
is always this one that we see here.
And then I can also say this office,
what else does it have?
And then, okay, do you have this other person was the same
and then we can go from this person as well.
And then, oh, this is interesting.
Why does this person now have so many other
personalities or same name as a thing.
So we can select all of these and then expand them again
and then see, can you find paths between
those sorts of rights?
So they all share one address and so on.
So you can basically do these very interactive explorations
on the data as such, right?
And then you can say, okay,
this address seems to be really important.
I just dismiss all the other nodes and then I would say
expand this or just have only introduced to the address.
I wanna see if there's an entity related to this.
But as you've seen before,
the entities don't have addresses in this current dataset,
of Pandora Papers.
But blue is really nice because then you can do this kind of
investigations and then you can export your
kind of go to presentation mode.
And then you can also export your data
as a screen transplants, right?
So if you want to do like an article or presentation
about something, again, say, okay, I want to do this.
And then I want to export this as a screenshot.
So I would kind of get, get this exported.
And then I can see this as my,
one second,
to open it.
Should have opened it on another screen.
I'm not sure any of that
Anyway, you can imagine (indistinct)
- It's basically a JPEG or a PNG file, and then you can-
- Exactly and that's really nice
because then you can really use this
for these kinds of visual investigations
also for people that don't have development experience.
And in Aura as well, you can open the databases
with bloom as well.
So if I open this database in bloom it's not empty
because you haven't imported anything
then you can explore this as well.
- Yeah, that's always the option
and it comes with every AuraDB instance.
Even with the free one,
you always have bloom alongside it.
So you can always go in and explore there.
So that's really handy like you said.
I mean, it's very good if you have no coding experience.
It's very visual, it's very easy to get going
just by typing in words basically in the search bar
and then you find the way around the dataset.
- That's okay, cool.
And I think this covers all the things that I wanted to show
what's kind of interesting is really to look at these
in different stories and investigations and see,
can we actually find the data for these investigations
in our for these stories in our datasets.
One thing I did in the article,
there was another set of...
There was another page here which I don't remember.
What was it called?
That is other investigations on top of that.
So you see, this is one about property ownership, right?
So we are basically people
from the Pandora people's investigations
who are involved in some property ownership,
like in London and then in different countries
and people who are involved in kind of
via ownership scenes of even if a German,
German Nursing Home in Berlin that's involved in.
And then you can basically search for these people basically
in the dataset and see if you find them in here, right?
So for instance, I dunno (indistinct).
also call db.index fulltext.querryNodes
and if you search in the officer index,
what is Boris Levin
limit 20,
then we see how does this form,
here's one entry, for instance from part of this
Pandora Papers but it's a different spelling
so it's kind of not in there.
But you can kind of use this to look at
some of the stories here, right?
And all the names are in capital letters here.
So you can basically look at these as well.
And so that's something that you can also explore as such.
- Yeah and this is...
Again, this is not the full release of the dataset-
- Yeah, exactly.
- that's kept with the ICIJ, obviously,
because this is really sensitive data
and they don't wanna publicly make this available.
That's not the point of this leak.
- Yeah.
- So that's why sometimes you will find nothing,
but this is not because it's not there, it's not made up.
It's really there but it's not available for you and me
to access it so you cannot.
- It's okay.
- You cannot go in there and look for your neighbors.
- Yeah, exactly.
I mean, some of the data is also in doc cloud.
So some of the data is actually published
where it's kind of protected as you can see
put chunks in here, right?
But they had already done all the work of extracting
this information from the document and turn it
into machine-readable database format
so they can use it for the investigation system.
And so that's an interesting from that perspective.
Yeah, so there's a lot of content here.
I mean, there's 200 journalists will vote on this
or there are more stories in there
then as an person could kind of look at.
But if there are certain things that are interesting
for your country or for whatever you're interested in,
then that's something equally
that you now can start investigating with this data
which is pretty nice.
- Yeah. I can always read up on it in your local newspapers
or in any other global ones. - Yeah.
- So that's a really interesting one.
It's always constantly glowing and adding new things to it.
So I wouldn't be surprised if there will be
another leak coming around.
But also like you said, Michael,
if there's some of the datasets sets
are missing or relationships missing.
So maybe we can get a V-roll of that
and then they make it available
and then we can update the guide a little bit.
But you know, like we show today here,
you can play the browser guide in Neo4j and you can go on
and explore the data set from there.
And that's already a pretty good start.
I think if you wanna go into that and explore it further,
and it's really, it's really amazing what they're doing
and how much they found out and how much
they make these connections.
These connections come to the foreign
and where they really see, oh, actually this is like I said,
we had this here.
I mean, these people we picked were more or less random.
So, I mean, we found this one guy that has like,
I don't know, 50 alliances.
- 50 Investigations or 50 investments (indistinct)
- Yeah.
- If you look at the Aliyev family,
they have so many things that are found in this
for this Azerbaijanian coolers wife and children
and himself as well.
So basically, there's a lot of data in there.
And if you're involved into something
like looking at these countries
and so then that will be equally interesting
for folks to have a look at such.
- Yeah, it's okay.
- Cool.
There was one thing that I wanted to mention.
Oh yeah, the really important aspect about this data is that
journalists use this kind of data
only as starting points for the investigation.
So they don't take the data into the story,
but they take the data, get information out of it
and then they start to investigate with their usual
journalistic tools, doing interviews, doing research,
doing a verification
and confirmation of what they found there.
So they don't publish only based on the data from the leak,
but they always corroborate the information
from other sources as well.
That's why journalist are not just people like us
who kind of just look at the data
and looking at what you're finding there
because they have all the journalistic towards also at hand
that they can use as well.
Cool. - Cool.
- So that I think covered what we wanted to cover today
and yeah.
- That was super cool, thank you very much, Michael.
Thank you for that insight
and for that run through the Pandora Papers data set.
I think that was really good.
We'll be back tomorrow actually with another special stream,
you can already subscribe to that
or get your reminder in YouTube.
So that's when we have Nathan Smith.
I will have Nathan Smith with me to talk about,
or he will basically talk about
how to create a similarity graph from node properties
with Neo4j.
So I think that's going to be
an interesting session tomorrow.
Like I said, get a reminder set up in YouTube already,
and then we will back Michael and I next week on Monday
in the morning session.
So that's going to happen over the next few days.
Until then, thank you very much for watching.
Thank you for participating and for a nice chat today.
And yeah, take care everybody and see you see around.
- Yeah, see you next time.